Wilderness Create Ideas page:

These ideas are also tasks that people can take upon themselves to research and develop into a meaningful possible technology to add to the tech tree. 

The goal of tech trees in general, especially primitive ones, is 
1: To make sure the use of the technology serves one of the goals for independance in some way. 
2: To come up with methods to create things in the most Universally Applicable Way (UAW). 
3: To make sure that the method is as simple and straightforward and as easy as possible. Avoiding overly complicated and tricky methods wherever possible. 
4: To make sure that the method is as efficient as possible, sacrificing as little materials and energy as possible in order to complete the process effectively.

Root:
In order to understand how to master material science, you first have to understand the principle that a 'science' is not a how-to guide, but rather a specific tool, fashioned for a specific field. But you are able to come up with your own tools by your recognition of certain patterns. For instance, Geometry, is a tool we have developed and is widely used and is the best tool we have for understanding shapes in mathematics. However, if you are unlearned in geometry, and have no access to learn about this tool, you can come up with your own kind of geometry, and this can be very beneficial because you can greatly simplify the geometry concepts based on your needs/goals, and the other benefit is it helps you learn the concepts of intelligent design, and if you do decide to learn the widely used form of geometry, you can understand it better and be able to compare it's strengths and weaknesses to your own geometry. Perhaps you can make a hybrid of the two systems if they both have features you would like to keep. I use this example, because mathematics is likely the most unchanging field of study, and yet you can still develop your own form of it, there are many other fields that it would make more sense for you to study and personally develop your own variation of. But really any field of study can have inumerable variations of tools. 

#1: compressed air tanks have several flaws. one main one is that They require a high pressure tank systems to fill and contain, which is a high level technology and expensive to aquire. An alternative method can work for diving at least in shallow water 30 feet. That is the method of using a electric battery to cause electrolysis underwater, or even better a chemical reacting device that reacts something to produce the exact mixture of nitrogen and oxygen you might need for diving. Either of these methods reduces that flaw mentioned for compressed air tanks. 

#2: It's difficult for people to create glass the old fashioned way, we should still work towards doing so, and find out the most universally applicable way. But an alternative does exist, it is possible to dissolve existing soda lime glass (SiO4) using hydrafluoric acid and possibly regrow it as crystals of high purity for clear optical lenses. Or maybe a better option is to distill silicon from rice husk ash or diotamaceous earth which will produce pure silicon which also might be useful in synthesizing glass. After that it's only a matter of growing glass in the exact shape and size we need.

#3: If you require good cool air flow in your home to lower the heat constantly, it might be beneficial to create a windcatcher or a varation of one, and also to add lots of points to the edges of your home, and if you're in arid low-humidity climate to add a place for water to sit on the roof (or perhaps in an attic with air flow) in order to greatly cool the inside of the shelter. Since the water will lose the hotter molecules which float away naturally, especially in wind, and leave behind the colder water molecules, which will cool down the roof of your house, sucking away heat from inside more effectively, this combined with good insulation can help a lot. Or if you use a full on wind catcher, that can also help, but a wind catcher usually needs to be quite large and tall to be very effective, so it might be simpler just to have a place to put undrinkable water on the roof. 

#4: For food preservation, digging a hole and placing a clay lid with a bowl shape filled with water on top, will allow the food to stay much cooler because of the water wicking methods ability to cool the clay bowl and thus cool the roof of the fridge thus keeping the fridge much cooler. Also since it's in the ground, it has great insulation, and when you pick up the lid the cool air doesn't leak out nearly as much as when you open a fridge with a side door.

#5: For cool drinking water, making a normal clay pot similar to olla(Native american) or botijo(Mexico) or matkas(India). Any design like these will work to have very refreshing tasty cool water, it even slightly purifies the water supposedly.

#6: For cool shelters, Railroad workers would sometimes set up shelters with burlap drapped over top and hanging on the sides, which when water gets drizzled on it, the inside of the shelter gets extremely cool around 30 degrees cooler than outside.

#7: (Relative Measurement) The imperial system of measurement was never intended to be standardized. The way we know this is because it was used for many years before being standardized. It wasn't until a king decided his foot should be the standard, that we started down the path of standardization. Now this doesn't mean we shouldn't have standardized it, or that a standard system of measurement isn't needed. We do need a standard system, but we also need a relative system. Why? Because a relative system allows someone without any tools to measure things. The imperial system is actually kind of neat when you know how to use it. As long as you are using it non-commercially. It's especially useful for the wildernessCreate guide, where you might start off with nothing and have to build your own system of measurement. The metric system was clearly designed to be a standard everywhere. We don't even have a unit for micro or nano sized things, only micrometer and nanometer are used, which we are forced to borrow from the metric system. The imperial system has smaller units than inch, but almost nobody has heard of them, at least I hadn't when I began researching. For instance have you ever heard of a twip, or a thou or a barleycorn? Those are the 3 units that are smaller than inches, but I have literally never ever heard anyone use them. Mostly for anything smaller than an inch people just use partial inches like .000001 inch for example. I actually think it is self evident that both systems are very useful but for different things, the imperial system is more useful as a relative measurement system, not a standard. Metric makes far more sense as a standard. So here I will show you how to measure things relatively using the imperial system when you need to. 
(By the way it's simple to convert your relative measurements into metric system measurements in order to make it work with others measurements. Just measure your inch or your foot to find out how many centimeters they are. Without further ado here is how to use the imperial system as it was intended:

Length:
inch = Width of thumb at the base of nail. (Also used to be 3 barleycorns or 1/12 of a foot, but those require more work to reference than your thumb width. Try them out and see how fast it is compared to using your thumb width)
foot = length of your foot
hand = length of your hand (useful for measuring vertical things like the height of a horse etc...)
yard = length of your belt or girdle
fathom = distance between tips of fingers when arms are outstretched to your sides in T-pose (sailors had to use this to measure rope a lot)
furlong = distance a team of oxen can plow before resting. This is Kinda silly, don't use this one unless you own oxen for some reason :)
league = the distance you can walk in an hour
mile = 1000 paces
pace = distance walked for every other step in other words, 2 steps.

These are very useful measurements since they are all relative. You might ask how relative measuring can be useful? Well, quite simply, you don't need any tools to measure something with a relative system, since it's all based on your own physical characteristics. But beyond that, it has another use. If you ever want to measure long distances, normally people have to buy a expensive tool called a rolly stick (jk I'm just calling it that for fun), but basically it rolls and measures for you, but without that device, measuring can be quite difficult, But if you simply walk from one place to another and count the steps, you can define the distance that way, for instance (2500 paces is 2.5 miles) If you want to convert this to kilometers just measure your average step in m/cm and you'll be very close most likely, as long as you weren't drunk while you were walking.
There is a simple useful method of measuring length in ancient history. A rod with cord carrying knots at certain intervals, waxed and resined against wet weather. This method was used Ancient egypt when building pyramids as well as in europe for land surveying.

Weight: 
ounce = weight of 1x1x.1 inch clay chip
pound = weight of 16 clay chips or weight of 2x2x2 inch cube of clay

How to measure weight: Use a scale (old fashioned) or use a seesaw for larger items or a pulley for really large items

Volume:
teaspoon = the volume taken by dry clay equal in weight to 1/2 ounce
tablespoon = the volume taken by dry clay equal in weight to 2 ounces
fluid ounce = the amount of liquid equal in weight to one ounce (depends on the liquid)
pint = 1/8 of gallon
quart = 1/4 of gallon
gallon = The volume taken by water equal in weight to 10 pounds

How to measure volume: Have markings inside a cup or container

#8: On the topic of land surveying, for inspiration on measuring objects from afar, read this page: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haidao_Suanjing

#9: Options for obtaining uniform clay: (sifter vs a puki vs a basket vs a slab vs levigation)
 - A sifter is very useful, and can be made without a puki. However, it is more useful if it can replace a puki, but in order for it to do that, you must have a good enough shape so it can be used as a puki, which is hard to do without already having a puki. It is possible, but it would probably end up too large and tall to be a puki, because using the coil method is difficult when you try to do this, unless you have some sort of skill in doing it. What you'll likely end up with is a tall bowl instead of a wide one, which is requirement for puki. I will test this more though.
 - A basket performs the same function as a sifter, but is not as useful for draining water out of stuff, but it is easier to make, since having a mistake won't ruin the whole thing like when making pottery.
 - A puki will aid you in making a good round shape of your sifter as well as for any other pots. The downside is it will take more time before you get your sifter.
 - A slab is a thick slab around 4 inches thick and as wide and long as you need, (usually 2 feet by 2 feet at minimum) in order to smash clay and remove impurities by hand. This clay can be used right away, or you can refine it more using sifter methods. If you need grog, a good option is to use terracotta (already cooked clay) which you can smash on this slab as well, or you can use sand that you obtained through a dual-stage sifter. (meaning sift once to obtain sand/clay, then sift again with different sifter to remove the clay from sand.)
   - Best way to make a slab: Simply stomp high clay content soil and dirt into mud, make mud and layer it 4 inches thick, and smooth the top after  it starts to harden, then find a round wooden stick, and make a handle on one end, the round heavy part is used to smash the dirt clods into pieces and obtain clay and remove the impurities like debris and rocks/pebbles.

#10: It would be very useful for preserving fabric if we could use water soluble glue on cushions to hold the fabric in place as well as thread. I need to come up with a good wrapping technique that doesn't cut up the fabric in odd ways. So far, I'm doing a pretty bad job of this, I think the best way to reuse fabric would be to fold wrap it over a object and sew the folds, then sew it to any extra pieces that need to be sewed. 
