ChatGPT AI Prompt
Can you write a youtube script for me that explains the following points?
1: Roots and affixes are combined to make most of the common words in the English language.
2: Root words tend to be the oldest words that were there at the start of our language.
3: When words are designed by roots and suffixes properly, it is possible to combine their respective meanings into the ultimate meaning into the word. Thus you are able to understand a words meaning based on the parts of the word itself, without looking it up. 
4: The roots and affixes system is the fastest way to learn the definitions of the most amount of words in the smallest amount of time. This is because rather than using a dictionary to learn the definition of each and every word that you run into, you only have to spend a certain amount of time learning the most common roots and affixes, of which there are only around 1000 total, and of which there are only around 250 that are used for 90% of the common words we use daily. There are over 1 million words in the English language. If you spent 3 hours every day studying English words, and were capable of memorizing each one in 1 minute, it would take around 15 years to complete, and that is if you have a perfect memory after initialy memorizing a word. However, with roots and affixes, since there are only around 1000 that are the most commonly used, provided you are memorizing at the same rate as before at 1 per minute and 3 hours per day, you can learn them all in less than 5 days. If you choose to just learn the most common roots and affixes which is about 250, then you would only need to spend less than 5 hours to complete it. Learning those words means you'll immediately be able to understand the definitions of hundreds of thousands of english words just by looking at them, without needing to consult a dictionary. The tricky thing to remember with roots and affixes is they are often adapted in certain ways to work better with a word, so you need to look at some words like a puzzle to be solved to ensure you are interpretting it correctly. But after you do this a few times it will become easier for you.
5: There are words that break the rules of component-based roots/affixes, for example the word: `shipshape` does not conform to a strict components based structure, since shape means a dimensional pattern, and ship simply means the vessel which travels on water. So calling something a shapped vessel travelling on water doesn't quite make sense in the context it is often used. But it is coloquially taken to mean `in a good condition or state`. 
6: There are many words which mean the exact same thing as other words known as synonyms. But these are actually a good thing, since they allow for better language flow for things like speeches, poems, rhymes and songs. This is because many words don't quite fit well in some sentences despite being the technically correct word in terms of meaning. For example here is a paragraph with bad language flow: "Having drinks at Hagrids tonight. It was kind of good to me to remember. There were not much work things done. I thought it stunk a little since so-and-so did not go there. But anyways, it was mostly good.", and here is a paragraph with better language flow: "Tonight we stopped by Hagrids and enjoyed drinks for the better part of an hour which was an amazing experience. There weren't many productive accomplishments, and also it was unfortunate that so-and-so didn't show up. However, despite this, it was an overall pleasant time." 
7: Keep in mind the thing that distinguishes root words and affixes is simply how they are combined together, these different components are often capable of standing on their own. But also sometimes they cannot stand on their own. For example: -ly a suffix that cannot stand alone because it means `in 'this' manner` so it must attach to another word in order to not have an empty reference to 'this'. Now compare this to 'able'. -able is a word that can stand on its own, but it also is used as a suffix. This is because it means `having the power to do`.
8: Technical fields of study do a good job of sticking to a composition based word system using existing roots and affixes, without making up new ones, because they are not as concerned with language flow. Their main priority is the technical and meaningful definitions, not how well they flow together in a sentence. This is why listening to technical jargon can be quite tricky for average listeners to understand without sufficient study in the field already, or a sufficient understanding of roots and affixes. This means to learn a technical fields specialized terminological lexicon as fast as possible, you should pay careful attention to its roots and affixes that are most common. This is exactly why I developed the `term dissector` app, which currently is designed for medical terms. But it can be adapted to work for other fields of study, and so it is completely open source for anyone to fork and make their own version or to add onto mine.



Here is the AI generated response: (with minor edits from me afterwards)
Hi everyone, and welcome to this video on roots and affixes in the English language.

Have you ever noticed that many English words seem to be made up of smaller parts that are combined together? These smaller parts are called roots and affixes, and they are an integral part of the English language.

Roots are the oldest words in the English language, and they tend to be the core of a word. Affixes are added to roots to create new words, and they can change the meaning or function of the root word.

When roots and affixes are combined properly, it is often possible to understand the meaning of a word based on the parts of the word itself, without having to look it up in a dictionary. This is because the meanings of the roots and affixes can be combined to create the ultimate meaning of the word.

One of the benefits of understanding roots and affixes is that it is a fast way to learn the definitions of many words in a short amount of time. There are over 1 million words in the English language, and if you were to try to learn the definitions of each one individually, it would take a very long time. However, there are only around 1000 roots and affixes that are used to make most of the common English words, and of these, there are only around 250 that are used for 90% of the words we use on a daily basis. Learning these could be done in less than 4 hours if you were able to memorize them at a rate of 1 per minute.

So, by learning the meanings of these common roots and affixes, you can understand the definitions of hundreds of thousands of English words just by looking at them, without having to consult a dictionary. Keep in mind that roots and affixes are often adapted in certain ways to work better with a word, so you may need to think of some words like a puzzle to be solved in order to interpret them correctly.

it's also worth noting that not all words in the English language follow the rules of composition-based words using existing roots and affixes. For example, the word "shipshape" does not conform to a summary meaning of it's individual parts. The word "shape" means "a dimensional pattern", and "ship" simply means "a vessel that travels on water". So calling something a "shaped vessel traveling on water" doesn't quite make sense in the context that "shipshape" is often used. However, "shipshape" is colloquially taken to mean "in a good condition or state." So just keep in mind this is not unusual by any means, but thankfully most words don't do this.

Another thing to consider is that there are many words in the English language that have the same meaning as other words, known as synonyms. While this may seem redundant at first, synonyms are actually a good thing because they allow for better language flow in things like speeches, poems, rhymes, and songs. This is because many words don't quite fit well in some sentences despite being the technically correct word in terms of meaning. For example, the paragraph "Having drinks at Hagrids tonight. It was kind of good for me to remember. There were not much work things done. I thought it stunk a little since so-and-so did not go there. But anyways, it was mostly good." has poor language flow compared to the paragraph "Tonight we stopped by Hagrids and enjoyed drinks for the better part of an hour which was an amazing experience. There weren't many productive accomplishments, and it was unfortunate that so-and-so didn't show up. However, despite this, it was overall a pleasant time."

On the other hand, technical fields of study tend to stick to a composition-based word system using existing roots and affixes, without making up new ones. This is because these fields are not as concerned with language flow; their main priority is the technical and meaningful definitions of terms. This is why listening to technical jargon can be quite tricky for average listeners to understand without sufficient study in the field or a sufficient understanding of roots and affixes. If you want to learn the specialized terminological lexicon of a technical field as quickly as possible, it's important to pay careful attention to the most common roots and affixes.

To help with this, I developed the "term dissector" app, which is currently designed for medical terms. However, it can be adapted to work for other fields of study, and it is completely open source, so anyone can fork it and make their own version or add onto the existing one.

The "term dissector" app breaks down technical terms into their roots and affixes, making it easier to understand the meanings of the terms and how they are constructed. By doing this users can speed up the learning process since it allows them to use real examples they've run into and instead of trying to look up the roots and affixes of a word manually or looking in a dictionary, this will train users to get accustumed to using the common roots and suffixes to understand what words in their field of study mean. And eventually be able to figure out how to do that on their own without programs assisting them.

So feel free to use the term dissector app as much as you want until you start getting the hang of it. At some point you should get used to the process and be able to interpret the meanings of words on your own with no problem!

Hopefully you found this video useful, and if not, please feel free to check out some of my other videos. I'm sure you'll find something there worthwhile.
