Tree #1: Primitive (start with nothing)
 Prerequisites: 
   - Follow survival guide to secure basic food, water and shelter if you don't already have those things secure.

STEPS: 
   Step 0: Learn the skills temporarily required until you get better technology later. For instance for cleanliness/hygiene using wood ash instead of soap, and using something for toothbrush/paste and emergency first aid and emergency SOS, learn to understand the animals and plants of the environment you are in and do not touch any plant if you have even a slight doubt about it and do not touch any plant that is unknown.
   Step 1: Create tools/materials -stone axe/adze through grinding or knapping, pottery or cactus/plant containers for water carrying and storage, fire starter of some kind like bow drill or cord and pump drill, plant cordage, glue/sap, Mortar and Pestle, abacus, tanning rack, weaved baskets, primitive lathe, primitive woven bark fiber, sandals, grindstone, wood stump anvil, mallets, bone/horn hammer, pulley, etc...
   Step 2: Learn skill of knot tying 
   Step 2: Create weapons/traps, bow/arrows, slings, spear, etc...
   Step 3: Use hunting/fishing or scavenging methods to find antlers for stone capable pickaxe, beeswax or animal fat for fatwax to preserve wood/metal tools, animal fat and flower petals for soap, and for food in general.
   Step 4: Learn skill of temporary food preservation/storage.
   Step 5: Use foraging skills and universal gardening tests to determine safe plants to garden and use. Try to find plants that are edible and useful for somethings. Try to find ones that are good medicinal herbs, and for pest control or privacy shrubs or shade plants that insulate shelters against the sun or other useful things including textiles and food etc...
   Step 6: Create bellows, kilns and furnaces for all your material creations with cement/pottery/wood ash/charcoal/gasifier/wood gas/lye/lime/calcium hydroxide/iron making/forging etc...
   Step 7: Learn skill of measuring lengths and marking straight lines with only a string
   Step 8: Learn skill of measuring flatness
   Step 8: Learn skill of Math using abacus or some other tool you make, and geometry
   Step 9: Learn skill of self-regulating temperature shelters.
   Step 10: Build any shelters/furniture/work shops or root cellars you want/need for next steps using the skills you learned above.
   Step 11: Learn skill of raising/domesticating animals for food or as work animals or to assist with hunting/trapping.
   Step 12: Learn skill of documentation in clay or stone tablets without using words, only symbols and minimal detail drawings. (For instance, you may come across a animal unique to the area, and discover something about them, such as they'll leave you alone if you act scary, or they'll attack you when you turn around. That sort of thing. Or maybe you discovered how to reproduce a certain wild plant native to the area by finding it's seeds and placing in a specific type of soil or whatever.
   Step 13: Learn skill of tally stick to use as a receipt/record when making purchases from someone.
   Step 14: Learn to make a instrument of some kind to help keep the atmosphere not so quiet and lonesome all the time.
   Step 15: Build a mine and dig holes to obtain rarer resources including useful stones, ore, chemicals.
   Step 16: Build a well or fog net or rain barrels or some other method of renewable water resource
   Step 15: Choose 2 product making processes to become a professional with, to push deeper into the technology, and find more uses for them, and also make them more beneficial and efficient to produce etc... then you may provide society with these things. For example, your job could be advancing primitive paints and making uniquely painted and glazed pottery, someone else may have the task of making pottery whistles or more ornate/quality weaved baskets or sandals etc... There is no end to the creativity possible even with this low level of tech. (Just look at mayans and inca for example)
   Step 16: From here on, you can begin to follow another tech tree, or stay content in this tree and make improvements to it, and design cool techniques and tools using this primitive level of tech. Because this is arguably a lot of fun to do. Note, that if you stay in this stage, you can still learn advanced science/math/chemistry/biology/electricity, and learning those things will greatly aid you in coming up with unique solutions to common problems. For example, you may learn how to use primitive electricity or magnetism etc...
    












