FUNDAMENTALS SCHOOL

Reference my recording memo. It explains the goal and how this system would work.

Description:
 - Fundamentals school is all about learning the fundamentals of human society starting with fundamental technology/human health, fundamental economics and service, then moving into fundamental relationships and meaning, and fundamental crime prevention and laws/government

 This is a decentralized organizational system, which means any community of people around the world can establish a organization based on it, this document is also a open source document, meaning anyone can edit it and make it their own and no one person or entity owns the rights to it. The original document will continue to be maintained by a single entity, but they do not own it, and as a maintainer they can involve others in the maintenance process to continually improve this document or remove any flaws in its original design. If you have any changes you wish to see in the original document, simply make the changes you wish to see and raise a pull request, and the entity who maintains it will proceed to merge your changes if it is agreeable enough.


Goals and principles behind this system:


How to organize:

How the school should be operated and what to expect from students:
 - Teachers are not babysitters, since this is a private education system, it is not tax-payer funded, so it is appropriate and constitutional to have bias and education pushing in a specific direction. However, the direction it is being pushed is not towards any politics, but rather towards fundamental human societal principles, which we is what we are biased towards learning about in this system. If there is a bias taking place that parents would rather not support, then they should not be forced to have their children go here, and can choose another school, perhaps another school using this same system but with less biased teachers/administration.
 - Students should expect to be orderly, and follow directions to a T, but while they are following directions they are given lots of freedom to experiment.
 Year 1: Students must be given the tools of learning, that being literacy, math/measurement, communication, scientific method principles and self-education as well as balance, (For literacy they are taught about roots/prefixes/suffixes, and also about language flow being the reason why we have many words for the same concepts. For measurement, they are taught why measurement is needed, the difference between relative (imperial system) and global standard measurements (metric system) and their uses. For math they are taught how to create math from scratch which is carried over into tech fundamentals. Communication is all about their ability to listen and respond, and also how to express their own ideas, and this involves body language and presentation of their body with clothes or style, scientific method principles just involves teaching them the way to learn what is by using scientific method, self-education involves teaching them how to learn when they are on their own, and helping them develop their own techniques that succeed, finally balance is just introducing the concept that humans must balance their passions and traits to ensure they don't go too far and hurt themselves This concept is continued in the fundamentals of meaning.
 Year 2: If students are not yet sufficient with tools of learning, then they must take another year, otherwise they can move on to the first fundamentals subject: Fundamental technology and human health/fitness. (Here students are taught how to get by with less man-made tech, and how to create society from scratch and everything that entails like how to grow herbs for medicine, how to travel safely, how to perform first-aid, how to garden/farm or make food, how to live a healthy life, how to do proper exercise and fitness for their body, the principles of open source and decentralization etc... This will aid them in their understanding of fundamental human society, since these are the building-blocks of every society)
 Year 3: If students opt to stay learning fundamental technology, they can, otherwise they can choose to move on to the next subject, that being fundamental economics and service industry (Here they can learn exactly how to put to use everything they learned from technological standpoint and even start their very first low-level business. They will learn how to budget, investment/money tree, take calculated risks, and perform business/product evaluations, etc...)
 Year 4: Same, but now they can move onto fundamental modern society (this is where they learn things they must know for their local area, like how to do taxes, how to live as a homeless person productively and healthily, how to endure/handle prison, or how to handle police encounters, how to perform self defense or self-preservation and avoid kidnapping, or how to plan a trip out of state, etc...)
 Year 5: Same, but now they can move onto fundamental relationships and meaning/symbology. (fundamentals of meaning is an advanced course, it is harder to understand which is why it comes much later after scientific method, because scientific method is very simple in comparison. Meaning is rather whatever is meaningful for humans, and what tends to be the most meaningful is reached based on experience and life events and history and culture, so there is a lot more involved here, and there is in fact a correct way of thinking about what is meaningful and what is not, and we get closer to that as a culture when we learn from our past mistakes and from history. It is not very objective based, because it is almost impossible to measure, since so many factors are at play, that is why we have to rely on people to try and follow the spirit that compels them to do good, whatever that might mean for someone. This is also where religion comes into play, basically people are taught what is meaningful and they decide what is true and what isn't for their religion, and gain a testimony of those concepts, of their truth or their falseness respectively. This also involves philosophy and social studies, but social studies and philosophy tend to be woefully inadequate for determining what should be meaningful and what shouldn't be. What tends to work well, is as a society adopts a specific culture filled with meaning, it tends to have lots of truth in it, and as a society if people find wrong in it, it takes a lot more work to update it, but it is possible to update, as long as people persist in truth, thus older cultures either refine and get better, or they become worse over time, depending on the righteousness of the people.
 Year 6: Same, but now they can move onto fundamental crime prevention and laws/government. (This is where students learn and develop opinions on whether corporal or capital punishment should exist, or what system of government (if any) is optimal, and how military should work, and how militias should be, and what regulations (if any) should exist, and how the government handles private property, or land management, etc...
 Year 7: Students may choose to develop any of the fundamentals they prefer, or if they feel ready, they can end schooling and pursue some adventure (perhaps a career, or volunteer or nomad or homesteading lifestyle etc... Whatever they need for their life and for their future and present family).
