Most ideal survival or from-scratch program (pair with most ideal diet and health/fitness for best results)

Here are all the small and simple truths I have picked up over the course of my life and what I hope other people can research and verify these things and hopefully find value here, and also hopefully customize it with their own improvements based in truth. The point of these is they are basic extremely simple changes that make a huge difference over a long period of time.

1: Learn skills required to survive out in the wilderness. First aid, foraging, travel/nomad skills, navigation/astronomy, 

14: Learn craft skills to make your own stuff when needed using only the stuff available on your land. I learned to make stone tools, wood tools, clay, metal, rope, cloth, etc...I also learned mathematics/geometry, chemistry, biology, measurements, language, knowledge preservation etc... Some things I learned to make: yoke, clay root cellar, relative measurement system,

15: Learn Engineering skills in order to increase your luxury and efficiency and create useful machines/mechanisms. I learned to make my own capstan, lathe, pulleys, pressurized waterjet, forge, charcoal kiln, gasifier/charcoal/tar maker, and many other things, see my wildernessCreate webpage for the full tree of knowledge. Pursue this indefinitely to obtain unforseen potential such as ability to edit dna, store info, make computers, lasers, etc... 

16: Always remember to put your family first, then your community, then your nation. This is how division of labor is done, which is required for us to reach our full potential and not be alone in our progress. 

17: Always remember your culture is going to be undermined and attacked, because cultures cannot mix without destroying one or both cultures. Guaranteed even if you are willing to give up your culture, the members of the opposing culture will not be as willing, and you definitely won't be able to convince everyone in your culture to abandon it, there will be people holding onto it, so all it will do is make them more under attack than ever. Thus, if you appreciate your culture for making you possible and your way of life, then you should reward it by trying to continue it's good traits and work to improve them, and try to reduce it's bad traits. Every culture can be indefinitely improved upon, but they cannot join together until each culture has been fully refined and perfected. Only then will it be possible for cultures to "coexist". And this is technically impossible to happen because humans are imperfect beings.








I have my own politics regarding things like federation of states and education, but those things are purposefully left out of this document because they are irrelevant to its topic and also they are much more debatable subjects. The ideas in this document are not meant to be debatable, what is inxluded is debatable, but the truth of each thing inside is not.

Lower status people who are exceptional and righteous are needed to inspire higher status people into thinking differently from the status quo. Divergent thinkers always beat faster processing individuals.

Lower status people also need to be relied upon to inspire the lowest status people to do good. Middle class is the one the makes the other two classes stable and more sensible and down to earth

(Don’t include) If you are a person who thinks your “group” united under a similar characteristic is more oppressed than others, then it would be good for your mental health to look at history for the group you think is the most “privileged” or least “oppressed” and find examples and evidence that proves they were or are oppressed far more than you realize. This will balance out your natural bias. And if you really want to, try switching to live as one of them and see how much easier or harder your life gets.

An easy answer to the problem posed by the conflicting cultures and only one culture can be practices successfully per family per communjty, is to have a federation of states with power to enact laws for the culture of their local area, not laws based on some forced national culture.

Show this document to jeanie and see if she has any thoughts or improvements to make to it, or criticisms.

My-ideal-lifestyle:

Advertise this document as the counter culture to modern society. It is the replacement we need. Make sure when I am positively reviewed and placed in front of people to explain myself that I credit all the creator youtubers who inspired me to learn to craft and make things diy. They truly unlocked my imagination and realization that everything is possible. That there is a universal pattern in this world in nature that was designed perfectly for us to utilize and progress ourselves and our world into a better state of being.

Also advertise the good work done by other people highlighting certain systemic issues in society and give a quick synopsis of each thing, and explain this counter cultural lifestyle was designed to combat all of these societal pitfalls.

(Don’t include) Never be a minority in a group of people that believes they are oppressed (whether true or false). Especially if they view your ancestors as the oppressors. Test it if you want to find out what happens scientifically.

I think a testament to these ideas is the fact that I was able to live them when I was single in my rental without anyone knowing about it. I was able to get the information I needed to self educate from social media, google searches and towards the end chatgpt.

I think I would prefer if my offspring or someone else used youtube to make these lifestyle ideas manifest. Regarding wildernessCreate, and fundamentals.

Add the idea that when a loss of order happens it is momentarily energetic and enjoyable, but after you are left with being closer to the ground and have to slowly work your way up again. It is the same principle when evil destroys anything good or highly ordered. Everyone’s standard of living drops. The consequence for evil behavior is felt by all good responsible individuals, who innocently must carry their cross and pay the price for someone elses sin, as Christ showed us.

Add that it is impossible to extract energy from something without a loss of order. Solar energy is a great loss of order, but it is the one that affects the immediate earth the least, wind energy has a lot of potential downsides to weather and wind energy if adopted at a mass scale.

Very few habits should be daily. Most should be as needed. For example, I need to improve my habits in general, so my daily habit is reviewing my habifs, I have to do it that way. But for other things like I need to improve my communication skill, I can make that a bidaily or even weekly or biweekly activity. It is more sustainable that way, but it also is improved faster the more you do it to a limit, so make sure to increase frequency when it makes sense as need requires and especially if you don’t have lots of other priorities.

Add ability to make wine, vinegar and yeast from scratch to the cooking basics

Making life ideal for the poor (who didn’t mean to become poor and are trying) while still sufficiently discouraging the purposeful poor is key for society, the way we can do that is increasing our ability to edit nature and teaching all people how to interact with it. If someone is hungry it should be possible to wander and find weeds naturally growing that provide nutrition, or medical herbs, perhaps wild cattle are programmed to allow people to milk them and make cheese and butter, perhaps parasites don’t infest natural waters anymore, so in other words the more we make the world a paradise for people who own nothing, the better life can be for all, especially those falling on hard times.

Of course these ideas can be perverted, and that is the value of holding onto the original. So this will be preserved as a reference, not a final version. Thankfully modern tech makes it possible to preserve the original and update it at the same time. Because git stores the history of this document. Nonetheless, I also made a backup onto a usb. How can people be sure of the unedited version? There is always a way.

Voluntarily taking on pain and responsibility is the key to spiritual growth. Fear is a type of pain that you will conquer when you do this

Always recognizing the ideal and promoting it is your penance for not being ideal. It’s hard, but infinitely better and less suffering than when you choose to reject the ideal simply because it is unattainable for you.

Make it clear if you have any good things to say about your own culture at all, then you ought to defend it, especially if your own culture promotes the family unit. Because guaranteed many will be heavily devoted to attacking and unfairly squashing it with any strategies. You should always strategize to make your culture the top culture in your society and world if you truly think it deserves it. Culture must be developed by the people with the strongest families, then the community largely adopts the ideas and principles which makes it an idea network, and those ideas and principles spread based upon the example and light allowed to be shined from the community, (as long as malevolent forces are not actively obstructing the light with propaganda)

Explain that religion is just culture specific principles and ideas condensed into stories and rituals to help all of society remember them to keep them “holy” and ensure there is a place for the “sacred” and a place for “hell”. It is a way of preserving practical knowledge or the knowledge of whatever people thought were the highest principles to remember to keep. Every society develops a religion naturally and organically inevitably. It is non-negotiable. It happens whether we want it to or not. Even among secularist societies. (Just look at modern atheists, satanists and woke ideologues). Also stories are helpful for not just explaining what something is, but actually showing practically what it means for us, and how it can potentially impact our lives. This is also why symbology and art can mesmerize us with their message, because it is incredibly meaningful for some idea/concept. Not only that, the art can tend to reach us somewhere psychologically that makes us recognize its truthfulness. The more true a piece of art is, the more this feeling strikes us. Reference jbp again

(I should make a symbol representing the idea and consequence of patents and copyright and intellectual property. Perhaps make art and a story as well)

Explain the importance of games, and of making better games. Show example of our crawl game designed to have unique magic systems. Also explain warriorball, and zombies, etc… physical games have a great purpose, and are even more essential than normal mind games. Share quote from jbp about how physical games teach us where the limit should be for socialization of a child. And how this is needed at a specific age, or else they never get socialized properly for their life.

Add practice what you want to get better at and perform supplemental exercises and stretches outside of that main activity. Give example like with my goal to run a marathon.

Add passive income and side gigs and hobbies and retirement hobbies to the page.

Add that every person should specialize in something monetizable, and become a master and adopt an apprentice for it. Your other stuff should be side gigs and enjoyable hobbies. This is part of the division of labor principle.

The dependance structure principle explains that people should be willing and able to abandon their dependance structures once they become corrupt and tyrannical.

Add that you have to share culture in order to agree on the basic fundamentals of reality, otherwise you both can’t communicate to each other, it is like you both speak a different language and both of you cannot see even objective reality the same way.

Add everyone should learn visur or at least vim (after we make it)

Gender is so vitally important for us to recognize, as when we ignore it we suffer. The more a person tries to fulfill his their genders role, even imperfectly, the happier and more fulfilled they will be and more dignity they will have that can’t be taken. Meaning male and female roles.

Add peanuts and nut butter and storage.

Add that making living documents like this is a good way to have it continually updated, expanded or stabilized. Also it being open source means anyone can preserve it through adaptation and adoption without worrying about copyright laws. Adaptation and adoption is the way ideas are preserved and moved forward. An idea with only one or the other is stagnant and at risk of getting lost to time, until someone originates the thought again with a lot of effort, and perhaps many years of people living without. The idea of copyright and patents and “intellectual property” are negative to society for a myriad of reasons and don’t provide any objective benefit to outweigh their costs. People can invent and make money through their work and inventions perfectly fine without government intervention protecting their monopoly for many years.

Add budgeting and money tree principles to the page
