100 PAGE DOCUMENTATION:
This is meant to be a condensed version of the full documentation

BACK TO NATURE GUIDE

Three parts of this guide: 
Part 1: Nothing but the clothes on my back
Part 2: With a bugout bag
Part 3: Homesteading with access to store/online supplies
Part 4: City Dwelling
Here is all the things I would do if I were trying to go back to nature from normal civilized society:

Part 1: Nothing but the clothes on my back
Assuming I am on land legally here is what I would do:
- Follow the [survival-guide] in order to obtain temporary and then permanent water/food/shelter/light

index:
herbs
cooking
foraging
first-aid
fitness
gardening
measurement-system


herbs
 - herbs are among the most medically important plants to grow. They are a suitable and in some cases safer with less side effects method of curing physical and mental ailments than drugs from a pharmacy.

cooking
 - cooking from scratch requires some amount of foraging or gardening skills. The incredible nature of food is evident in the reality that almost all our foods rely on certain elements in nature that provide for us. Such as yeast and acetates which floats in the air, animals which are normally a conversion of grass which is inedible into delicious sustenance in a variety of ways, and the entire ecosystem of life is descibed in this course.

foraging
 - Foraging is an important skill to help when more permanent solutions for things are not yet available. 
first-aid
 - First aid is a vitally important skill when out away from civilization, even if you are in civilization it can be a matter of life and death.
fitness
 - Learning the hidden secrets of minimalistic exercise and understanding of how our physical body works. We go over the ways to properly maintain tendons, joints, ligaments and muscles. As well as how often to eat food.
gardening
 - Gardening is the sustainable way of life. By having a garden you are supporting yourself with food you grow, and also contributing to clean air around your home, and 
measurement-system
 - We teach how to use a relative measurement system, and also the metric system. How to measure everything with a simple string with small pins in it.
math
 - We show how to create a circular slide rule from scratch, as well as how to use it, and furthermore we encourage users how to go through the process of designing math from scratch in a way that fits in with objective mathematic truths especially among the more practical end.
navigation
 - We explain the ins and outs of moon phases, sunlight, and mapping star locations in order to navigate especially useful when out at sea, or traveling at night without a compass.
mining
 - Mining is a suitable replacement for things you normally have to buy at home depot, we'll explain the different types of mining, and how to dig in a quarry with basic tools, as well as what sort of things to be looking for. And how to designate a spot as a suitable mining location.
education
 - We teach the basics of how human beings learn, and how to prevent bias from entering into the picture with public schools and how bias is absolutely ok and in fact a good thing to have in private schools since those parents are paying for the education. But if a parent is not ok with a particular bias they can choose another school.
art
 - We teach that art can teach true principles more effectively holding up a mirror to our souls better than anything else. This is explained well by JBP and also it is why art can be infinitely valueable and has no limit to its monetary value in many instances throughout history. Especially historical art.
Language:
 - We teach the fundamentals of roots prefixes and suffixes and how to use them like a recipe for designing words, but also explain the reason why we have so many words meaning the same things and that kind of break these rules, because for music, art, poems, speeches etc... They change the flow and help improve communication. The main use of roots prefixes and suffixes is for technical studies, because in those cases you are not concerned with flow of speech, and instead you wish to be able to look at a word and understand its meaning without looking it up in a dictionary.
Fullness of Times:
 - We teach about the fullness of times, how God works in His ultimate power to bring heavenly things and ideas and miracles to Earth sometimes. Like the Urim and Thumim and other similar seer stones which would sound absurd to people, except for the fact we have built modern, though not nearly as powerful versions of the Urim and Thumims in our society, and we greatly depend on them.
Fundamental principles:

#1: Understand that our lungs, tendons, muscles, bones, fat, heart/arteries, skin, mind and joints all can be strengthened through training, and there are exercises that focus on some and ignore others. So ensure you do exercises that focus on all of these. These are the 5 foundational aspects of human strength. Cardiovascular, skeletal, joint, tendon, and muscle. Here are the ways to train each category:

fat: Cold training is the ability to adapt our body to be more resiliant to cold, also to train the mind not to fear the cold, because there is a limit to how shocking it gets to our senses. To train cold is a dual benefit, it helps reduce inflamation in tendons and joints after serious workouts, and it also helps develop your resistance to cold and develop more 'brown fat' over time which can be beneficial as it burns energy directly to keep you warm without requiring movement. Eskimos and people who constantly live in colder climates tend to have higher amounts of brown fat. There is also the ability to add fat stores to the body without letting it seriously affect your athleticism like the sumo wrestlers do, but I have yet to discover the usefulness of this or if it has any practical benefits.

lungs: To train lungs is natural for some endurance exercises or ballistic movements, but to focus training on lungs you can do breathing exercises, and also try inhale/exhale exercises with resistance. Like blowing up a balloon, or trying to breath through a skinny straw.
For lung training, you can do resistance with a balloon, or breathing through a straw, or do high altitude training, both work different things for the lungs. Or you can simply focus on performing specific breathing exercises like wimm hoff breathing technique, or a tai chi breathing technique or other various breath holds.

Tendons: To train tendons, simply bend a joint until the muscle you want to train is in a stretched position, then add a little bit of resistance to that stretched position. Or even more effective, go into the stretched position same as before, and wrap a tightened rope around to prevent you from moving out of that position, then try to push against the rope while in that stretched position.

Muscles: To train muscles most effectively you would want to train them in comfortable range of motion and comfortable weight until you can effectively reach high ranch of motion and high weights.

cardiovascular: To train the heart for cardio, simply do daily exercises, but especially try doing a series of movements without stopping, and focusing on breathing the entire time. 1 hour is a good longevity for movements. Full body movements are best. Jacobs ladder is one of the best type of movements since it involves full body, not just legs. There is a real life strategy for strengthening and toughening areas by purposely hitting them in a controlled and careful manner to cause bruises at first, and then over time that area becomes more resilant to blows. See the Shiaolin monks for example, They will practice hitting a sack of rice with blade hands, and also hitting each others forearms together in order to toughen these areas. The first week or so it causes bruises, but after that the area does adapt and become tougher, I am unsure of what is actually going on here, but most likely it is actually strengthening the capilaries near the skin, or simply cushioning them with more tougher fat/muscle/skin tissue, or both. Either way it seems this 'toughening' process is actually quite evident, as many men have obtained tougher bodies during training, to be able to accept blows to the face or body without it causing as much damage. It might seem counter productive to damage our tissue to make it stronger, but that is actually what is happening for our muscles when we develop micro-tears in the hopes that it will heal with stronger and larger muscle tissue, so while it may not be the case for all aspects of our body, it is possible this works just as well for our capilaries/fat/skin as it does for muscle tissue. Though you must pay careful attention to what is happening to your body when you undertake such stressful training, because it can backfire easily.

Bones: Weight training is most effective for bone strength. high weight, low reps.

Joints: To train joints, mostly it is about giving your joints a break, not really about training them, but you can think of it as training if you want. Basically the way to train joints is to perform tai chi movements with a focus on tendons. You are not trying to work tendons to get them way stronger, you are simply trying to stabilize them and relieve pain points in your joints and tendons. This works your heart as well if you do it for 1 hour straight.

Skin: To train skin, is more about training it's strength and elasticity, but also if you develop callouses, that can be very useful as well. I am not aware of a good program meant specifically for skin yet.

Here is all the workout equipment you'll need to perform any of these types of training:
rope
sand bags and handles
strong metal bar able to handle lots of weight
Platforms or bench or changes in elevation
squat bar rack (optional)
vest/body suit compatible with sand bags (optional)


Every day you should decide what you are training. Bones, tendons, muscles, heart or joints. It is probably important to train several things per day. So one day could be tendons and muscles, the next could be muscles and heart, the next could be joints and lungs etc... In fact I think rest days would be the days where you focus on joints and lungs. So tai chi and breathing day.

Here is what training could look like for tendons:
 - Bicep pushups
 - rope resistor movements of all types
 - sled pulls using the sand bags
 - lunges
 - knees over toes or deep squats
 - ballistic hops or movements

Here is what training could look like for muscles:
 - tricep curl
 - bench press
 - squat
 - bicep curl
 - hamstring curl
 - pullups
 - wrist curls/rotations

Here is what training could look like for heart:
 - Jacobs ladder
 - bodyweight exercises
 - running/hiking/jogging/biking/swimming
 - sprinting
 - If have a vest/body suit, then sand bag weighted training is an option here

Here is what training could look like for bones:
 - High weight squat/deadlift/bench press/

Here is what training could look like for joints:
 - Tai Chi  (tai chi actually trains tendons, heart, joints and even muscles at the same time, but it's primary usefulness is to give our joints a break and aid digestion/breathing)
 - back or hip stretches/exercises
 - tendonitis relaxation/relief techniques

Here is what training could look like for lungs:
 - wim hoff breathing technique
 - tai chi breathing technique
 - inhale/exhale resistance
 - deep breath hold
 - no breath hold

NOTE that all the above examples train multiple things at once, but they are listed under specific things so that you can know what the most effective examples are for training for a specific purpose. All these things do overlap a little.

#2: Understand that if your belly is full all the blood in your body will work in the digestion system and not be fully available for working out. So only workout at least 1 hour after eating.

#3: Understand that when performing a movement that has too great resistance for your muscles, your tendons will be relied upon, and if the tendons are not strong enough, the bones and joints will be relied upon, and if those are not strong enough, then they will be damaged. For example trying to force your way to chew through a material that is too tough for your muscles and tendons in the jaw to handle, could end up injuring your jaw or if you have strong jaw strength but weak teeth, then you could break a tooth. This is one reason you should not ignore any of these, but especially learn how to train them each, as shown above. For example, tendons in the jaw can be exercised for this movement, by simply having something that makes your jaw have to open as wide as possible, and then try to push as hard as feels comfortable to chew through the object with your teeth, and hold that for 6 seconds. Having strong tendons is one of the secrets to true strength, since again the muscles will often run into things too difficult to push through, at which point the tendons have to be relied upon to generate the additional force required to push through.

preface
introduction
summary-of-techs
tech-advancement
tech-tree
survival-guide
back-to-nature-guide
single-page
100-page
INTRODUCTION

[[placeholder: put the explanation of unified-nature-theory here from my phone notes]]

==================================================
Explanation of how things work based on everything I've learned so far:
It seems as though this world is filled with repeating patterns. The patterns that allow us to survive as a species are those relating to fulfilling our basic necessities. Technology, food, water, shelter and comfort. Some example patterns are: invisible microoranisms that provide us the most universal and accessible materials to meet our temporal needs. Another is common materials that are also universal and provide us with the tools we need. Finally there is the ecosystem itself which is capable of taking dead or dying life matter and turning it into new life or maintenance materials for existing life. By far the most impactful patterns are those that when you learn them make you question things like "Why doesn't modern school teach us this, when it is so practical and universal, whether poor or rich?" or "Can such a usefully ordered and well designed thing exist on accident without the influence of a higher being? If so, that is more than incredible" It is almost as though this world was designed for us to be able to progress quickly without much effort on our part aside from simple experimentation.
Here are some examples:
 - Wild Yeast microorganisms exist everywhere in the air, they give us bread and wine/alcohol
 - Wild Acetic microorganisms also exist in the air, they give us vinegar
 - Wood exists everywhere, when burned in various ways it produces charcoal and wood ash.
 - Charcoal burns hotter than wood, and especially based on the more oxygen you give, and it makes a perfect fuel for many things including metal forges or foundries.
 - Wood ash provides lye when you soak and strain it, which can be turned into soap, or used to decompose living flesh as it is a powerful base.
 - The remaining wood ash can be used to make wood ash pots or cement
 - wood ash also works as a glaze for pottery.
And so on:
Inspired by these many useful truths, I want to also discover universal methods for determining the properties of an unkown plant such as edibility, toxicity, health benefits, health concerns, medicinal uses, etc... I also would like to discover universal methods for determining the way in which you must propogate and harvest a unknown plant, and also the ideal conditions for its growth, i.e. what climate and season it prefers.
I would like to discover universal patterns in chemistry, at least the most common types of chemistry we witness every day. As well as the universal patterns of microorganisms.
Also math, fitness, measurement, budgeting, cooking etc...
But before I go too deep into those topics I mainly wish to develop the wildernessCreate tech guide. So people can immediately go out into the woods, and follow these techniques and advance, not just to the bronze age, not just to iron age, but all the way past the modern age! I believe it can be done, because it has been done before. Our society made the advances it did because of righteous people being allowed to pursue truth. 

==================================================
Knowledge Scrolls

This page is how everything connects together and the power of each knowledge scroll is found in the enlightenment it gives about how everything works together and helps you make your own higher resolution conclusions.
Knowledge is only useful in the context where it is used. Thus I don't just make general statements, since they can be incorrect in some contexts, and very correct in others. So all I speak about is in the context of some important goal.

knowledge also is fleeting. It goes away, thus the knowledge here must be preserved by warrior monks willing to defend the precious truths and not allow corruption to infect it's pages. I don't mind if many people make their own versions and copies, that is fine. But recognize if you want any truth in them to persist and not be corrupted for your version or mine, you'll need to guard them as if they were precious jewels. There can be multiple temples with different doctrines in each one, that is what most churches are. The most important job for any church or temple is to preserve knowledge that was obtained through great sacrifice and pain. That is what makes them spiritual, and the fact that those charged with preserving them must be thoroughly vetted and trained to change their spirit to be aligned with this goal and nothing else. That is a spiritual endeavor, as nothing else can ensure the safety of records or purity of truth. In a way this is always how truth can persist in this corrupt world, you must have those willing to train for the sole purpose of defending them. Temples are useful because they are a location that monks can go to, and live at just for the purpose of protecting precious knowledge. In this way it is a spiritual endeavor that tests those in charge of it's safekeeping because if any corruption affects their hearts then how could they be trusted? This is why in Asian cultures it has always been a rigorous process and meant to be only for those with real intent on preserving truth. If anyone has a better way of protecting knowledge please tell me. This is meant as a glossary of truth for people to look up for a strict purpose of being able to survive in the world, and understand how life sustains itself, and also how technological progress is made. Thus this is a quick reference to many important things related to that purpose, and therefore if it is lost to time that is ok, because anyone can look at this world and make the same discoveries, it will just take a lot more time. I had the benefit of individuals on the internet and books to inspire and inform me. The wisdom of these pages cannot last unfortunately, not in this world. But they will be common knowledge in the eternities. In fact that is what this book aims to be, the most impactful common realities affecting all living things, which if understood will make our lives better. To me IQ is about how fast your processing power is, but knowledge itself is obtained simply by understanding it which is more complex of a process than IQ. That is why we don't have any sophisticated way to measure understanding yet. We can measure someones understanding of a subject, but not of all subjects. IQ is meant to measure a single thing, but you cannot measure someone's depth of understanding, unless you get specific. This is why IQ is hereditary and affected by our health when we are raised, but knowledge is something even people of the lowest IQ's can understand. If I explain to someone that a butterfly has wings, if they are at least capable of understanding language then they will understand that, They may not understand all that it means or what the implications are for that, but they will understand that. I can further explain the implications to them later on and they can understand that as well.
To be honest any knowledge is not required to make it through this life. God provides us all the light we need to complete whatever our mission in life is. Thus we do not need to stress or worry about guarding knowledge so much, guarding knowledge of temporal things is not as important. Since God is the Light that will send us more light in the moments we need it most. These things may be enlightening, but they are by no means required in order to be a good person and pass our test in this life. In fact it can needlessly distract us from our main missions if we are not careful. worshipping our creator is far more important and fulfilling than the worship of knowledge. So I'll continue to document things here which are relevant as they appear, but I won't stress about this much, one day if I can do this for a career then it can be useful and fun, but not to replace my other life responsibilities.

I have realized that what this page is really about is doing more with less. The more we understand the fundamentals of our reality, the more things we can do with less material possessions. That is what I truly love to do as a hobby is figure out how to do more things with less. I love living minimalistically, especially more in tune with nature. But also I want this to help people who run into the same problems I've run into and they can improve on my ideas. Because I've had many physical health problems in my life, and more importantly many things that school failed to teach me that I should have known by the time I turned 18. Furthermore there are many things I wish I knew so I could literally be a nomad or go live in the wilderness. Because while that is possible, the way most people live in the wilderness does not appeal to me, because it seems many are missing useful knowledge. That was my goal, to not just rough it in the woods, but actually live independantly, with my family. Not just homesteading, but not just surviving in the wilderness either. Instead it was a focus on living a lower tech lifestyle that is comfortable and luxurious in many ways.

Gardening:
 - The idea behind life is that each living organism can process nutrients by making them either more bioavailable for other organisms to digest, or by converting them into completely different and more useful nutrients for other types of life. Learning to understand this principle is key for gardening, hunting, and generally having a sustainable clean diet for you and your family. In a way we are all digesting and converting things all the time. Beyond this, there is another thing that many organisms do, and that is depend on each other in symbiotic relationships. Mycelium and mushrooms connect to the roots of plants and because they can reach farter with their hyphae, can actually grab nutrients farther away and provide them to the plants. It acutally works in a network to consume nutrients and share it with the plants it connects to. though this is not the whole store, there is much more to this, because there are also many plants that have extremely large root systems that interconnect many seemingly separate plants. The more we come to understand this principle the better we will be able to understand how to work with plants and mushrooms to provide food for ourselves and other animals. That is in fact where it all starts, at least with regard to understanding how to continue living ourselves.
 - almost every living thing is fertilizer that can provide nutrients for various other organisms. Every living thing is a factory that takes in a certain nutrient combination and converts it into another combination of nutrients. For example plants convert oxygen/nitrogen/water/carbon dioxide, and many other less important nutrients into cellulose and sugars. Animals and humans consume the sugars and sometimes the cellulose of plants, but there is often a lot of waste, since humans cannot or should not eat things like the cob of corn, or the stalks of wheat. Even animals/insects cannot be completely relied upon for this in many cases. So the real worker we have to thank for breaking down waste cellulose and many other waste products is mold/fungi. These break down into nutrients that are good fertilzer for plants and sometimes even edible for animals/insects/humans, but mostly the purpose is converting dead things into plant food to get some of the more unusual but still vitally important nutrients that plants need. There is an important stipulation of course, because if mold could grow on any living thing it would be very dangerous, it in fact has it's limits. It will not grow in absence of water or in too much sunlight. So the best recipe as a gardener for breaking down dead plants/wasted food into fertilizer is to place the waste in a shaded area and water it occasionally, and if possible manually place mushroom in it of the kind you want to grow. Mushrooms themselves if you choose a safe strain is very healthy and nutritious and even tasty in many meals for humans. In fact as a gardener it is recommended that you have a area for processing of waste plants/food to become protein, vitamins, minerals and anioxidants and another place for human/animal fecal matter to process into nitrogen rich fertilizer. Of course there are safety concerns for both, so you must learn about and understand these things properly. But the ideal and most healthy and simple way to get your plants the nutrients they need, and if you eat them the nutrients you need is to have both of these designated areas for processing waste into nutrients for plants. 

Life cycle:
 - Life can be made largely of a few basic components and still function, but essential nutrients make life healthy.
 - Starting with plants, the life cycle goes like this: Plants grow from nutrients in the earth. When plants die, they provide food for various things, but if nothing else eats them, then fungi will, however, fungi will only grow if there is moisture available and if it is in a shaded area. Once the fungi has converted the cellulose in plants into mycelium, it has effectively extracted the nutrients and converted into mushrooms and mycelium. Mycelium/mushrooms can die and become nutrition for plants and other organisms tending to be more nutritious than simple decaying plant matter. Animals eat plants and other animals to get their nutrition, and when they die, many insects and animals can obtain nutrition from them. While they are alive animals provide useful nutrition for plants and insects by converting food into nitrogen rich fecal matter. nitrogen happens to be the 3rd most important nutrient for plants, before that is carbon dioxide and water. 



The goal of tech trees in general, especially primitive ones, is 
1: To make sure the use of the technology serves one of the goals for independance in some way. 
2: To come up with methods to create things in the most Universally Applicable Way (UAW). 
3: To make sure that the method is as simple and straightforward and as easy as possible. Avoiding overly complicated and tricky methods wherever possible. 
4: To make sure that the method is as efficient as possible, sacrificing as little materials and energy as possible in order to complete the process effectively.

Root:
In order to understand how to master material science, you first have to understand the principle that a 'science' is not a how-to guide, but rather a specific tool, fashioned for a specific field. But you are able to come up with your own tools by your recognition of certain patterns. For instance, Geometry, is a tool we have developed and is widely used and is the best tool we have for understanding shapes in mathematics. However, if you are unlearned in geometry, and have no access to learn about this tool, you can come up with your own kind of geometry, and this can be very beneficial because you can greatly simplify the geometry concepts based on your needs/goals, and the other benefit is it helps you learn the concepts of intelligent design, and if you do decide to learn the widely used form of geometry, you can understand it better and be able to compare it's strengths and weaknesses to your own geometry. Perhaps you can make a hybrid of the two systems if they both have features you would like to keep. I use this example, because mathematics is likely the most unchanging field of study, and yet you can still develop your own form of it, there are many other fields that it would make more sense for you to study and personally develop your own variation of. But really any field of study can have inumerable variations of tools. 

#1: compressed air tanks have several flaws. one main one is that They require a high pressure tank systems to fill and contain, which is a high level technology and expensive to aquire. An alternative method can work for diving at least in shallow water 30 feet. That is the method of using a electric battery to cause electrolysis underwater, or even better a chemical reacting device that reacts something to produce the exact mixture of nitrogen and oxygen you might need for diving. Either of these methods reduces that flaw mentioned for compressed air tanks. 

#2: It's difficult for people to create glass the old fashioned way, we should still work towards doing so, and find out the most universally applicable way. But an alternative does exist, it is possible to dissolve existing soda lime glass (SiO4) using hydrafluoric acid and possibly regrow it as crystals of high purity for clear optical lenses. Or maybe a better option is to distill silicon from rice husk ash or diotamaceous earth which will produce pure silicon which also might be useful in synthesizing glass. After that it's only a matter of growing glass in the exact shape and size we need.

#3: If you require good cool air flow in your home to lower the heat constantly, it might be beneficial to create a windcatcher or a varation of one, and also to add lots of points to the edges of your home, and if you're in arid low-humidity climate to add a place for water to sit on the roof (or perhaps in an attic with air flow) in order to greatly cool the inside of the shelter. Since the water will lose the hotter molecules which float away naturally, especially in wind, and leave behind the colder water molecules, which will cool down the roof of your house, sucking away heat from inside more effectively, this combined with good insulation can help a lot. Or if you use a full on wind catcher, that can also help, but a wind catcher usually needs to be quite large and tall to be very effective, so it might be simpler just to have a place to put undrinkable water on the roof. 

#4: For food preservation, digging a hole and placing a clay lid with a bowl shape filled with water on top, will allow the food to stay much cooler because of the water wicking methods ability to cool the clay bowl and thus cool the roof of the fridge thus keeping the fridge much cooler. Also since it's in the ground, it has great insulation, and when you pick up the lid the cool air doesn't leak out nearly as much as when you open a fridge with a side door.

#5: For cool drinking water, making a normal clay pot similar to olla(Native american) or botijo(Mexico) or matkas(India). Any design like these will work to have very refreshing tasty cool water, it even slightly purifies the water supposedly.

#6: For cool shelters, Railroad workers would sometimes set up shelters with burlap drapped over top and hanging on the sides, which when water gets drizzled on it, the inside of the shelter gets extremely cool around 30 degrees cooler than outside.

#7: (Relative Measurement) The imperial system of measurement was never intended to be standardized. The way we know this is because it was used for many years before being standardized. It wasn't until a king decided his foot should be the standard, that we started down the path of standardization. Now this doesn't mean we shouldn't have standardized it, or that a standard system of measurement isn't needed. We do need a standard system, but we also need a relative system. Why? Because a relative system allows someone without any tools to measure things. The imperial system is actually kind of neat when you know how to use it. As long as you are using it non-commercially. It's especially useful for the wildernessCreate guide, where you might start off with nothing and have to build your own system of measurement. The metric system was clearly designed to be a standard everywhere. We don't even have a unit for micro or nano sized things, only micrometer and nanometer are used, which we are forced to borrow from the metric system. The imperial system has smaller units than inch, but almost nobody has heard of them, at least I hadn't when I began researching. For instance have you ever heard of a twip, or a thou or a barleycorn? Those are the 3 units that are smaller than inches, but I have literally never ever heard anyone use them. Mostly for anything smaller than an inch people just use partial inches like .000001 inch for example. I actually think it is self evident that both systems are very useful but for different things, the imperial system is more useful as a relative measurement system, not a standard. Metric makes far more sense as a standard. So here I will show you how to measure things relatively using the imperial system when you need to. 
(By the way it's simple to convert your relative measurements into metric system measurements in order to make it work with others measurements. Just measure your inch or your foot to find out how many centimeters they are. Without further ado here is how to use the imperial system as it was intended:

Length:
inch = Width of thumb at the base of nail. (Also used to be 3 barleycorns or 1/12 of a foot, but those require more work to reference than your thumb width. Try them out and see how fast it is compared to using your thumb width)
foot = length of your foot
hand = length of your hand (useful for measuring vertical things like the height of a horse etc...)
yard = length of your belt or girdle
fathom = distance between tips of fingers when arms are outstretched to your sides in T-pose (sailors had to use this to measure rope a lot)
furlong = distance a team of oxen can plow before resting. This is Kinda silly, don't use this one unless you own oxen for some reason :)
league = the distance you can walk in an hour
mile = 1000 paces
pace = distance walked for every other step in other words, 2 steps.

These are very useful measurements since they are all relative. You might ask how relative measuring can be useful? Well, quite simply, you don't need any tools to measure something with a relative system, since it's all based on your own physical characteristics. But beyond that, it has another use. If you ever want to measure long distances, normally people have to buy a expensive tool called a rolly stick (jk I'm just calling it that for fun), but basically it rolls and measures for you, but without that device, measuring can be quite difficult, But if you simply walk from one place to another and count the steps, you can define the distance that way, for instance (2500 paces is 2.5 miles) If you want to convert this to kilometers just measure your average step in m/cm and you'll be very close most likely, as long as you weren't drunk while you were walking.
There is a simple useful method of measuring length in ancient history. A rod with cord carrying knots at certain intervals, waxed and resined against wet weather. This method was used Ancient egypt when building pyramids as well as in europe for land surveying.

Weight: 
ounce = weight of 1x1x.1 inch clay chip
pound = weight of 16 clay chips or weight of 2x2x2 inch cube of clay

How to measure weight: Use a scale (old fashioned) or use a seesaw for larger items or a pulley for really large items

Volume:
teaspoon = the volume taken by dry clay equal in weight to 1/2 ounce
tablespoon = the volume taken by dry clay equal in weight to 2 ounces
fluid ounce = the amount of liquid equal in weight to one ounce (depends on the liquid)
pint = 1/8 of gallon
quart = 1/4 of gallon
gallon = The volume taken by water equal in weight to 10 pounds

How to measure volume: Have markings inside a cup or container

#8: On the topic of land surveying, for inspiration on measuring objects from afar, read this page: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haidao_Suanjing

#9: Options for obtaining uniform clay: (sifter vs a puki vs a basket vs a slab vs levigation)
 - A sifter is very useful, and can be made without a puki. However, it is more useful if it can replace a puki, but in order for it to do that, you must have a good enough shape so it can be used as a puki, which is hard to do without already having a puki. It is possible, but it would probably end up too large and tall to be a puki, because using the coil method is difficult when you try to do this, unless you have some sort of skill in doing it. What you'll likely end up with is a tall bowl instead of a wide one, which is requirement for puki. I will test this more though.
 - A basket performs the same function as a sifter, but is not as useful for draining water out of stuff, but it is easier to make, since having a mistake won't ruin the whole thing like when making pottery.
 - A puki will aid you in making a good round shape of your sifter as well as for any other pots. The downside is it will take more time before you get your sifter.
 - A slab is a thick slab around 4 inches thick and as wide and long as you need, (usually 2 feet by 2 feet at minimum) in order to smash clay and remove impurities by hand. This clay can be used right away, or you can refine it more using sifter methods. If you need grog, a good option is to use terracotta (already cooked clay) which you can smash on this slab as well, or you can use sand that you obtained through a dual-stage sifter. (meaning sift once to obtain sand/clay, then sift again with different sifter to remove the clay from sand.)
   - Best way to make a slab: Simply stomp high clay content soil and dirt into mud, make mud and layer it 4 inches thick, and smooth the top after  it starts to harden, then find a round wooden stick, and make a handle on one end, the round heavy part is used to smash the dirt clods into pieces and obtain clay and remove the impurities like debris and rocks/pebbles.

#10: It would be very useful for preserving fabric if we could use water soluble glue on cushions to hold the fabric in place as well as thread. I need to come up with a good wrapping technique that doesn't cut up the fabric in odd ways. So far, I'm doing a pretty bad job of this, I think the best way to reuse fabric would be to fold wrap it over a object and sew the folds, then sew it to any extra pieces that need to be sewed. 

#11: The moon cycles can help you to plan when to do things at night or in the evenings. Every time the sun sets the moon comes up 1 hour later. If it's a new moon, then it will have no light at night, but some nights it will have 2 hours of complete darkness once the sun sets, other times it will be bright most of the night because of the full moon etc...

#12: In order to make a perfect circle, all you need is string and nails, the nails can be replaced with sharp stones or thorns if that is all you have access to. First decide the width of your circle by placing the nails the distance apart on the string. Then place one nail in the middle of your workpiece, and hammer it in a little so it stays put, next use the other nail and pull it until there is no slack in the string. Then simply etch the surface of your work using the nail going all around the original nail, now you have a perfect circle. (note, the string in the middle needs to have a semi-loose knot around it, it cannot go through the string, since that would cause the string to coil around it ruining the circle etching. Next, once you have a perfect circle, you can use this for checking other things you try to make, for instance, you can build pottery over it using coil technique to ensure you get a perfect circle shape for the top of the pot, you can also use it for wood working to cut perfect circles in wood, you can chop the circle out of the wood and use it as a template that way as well, so you can actually draw a circle around it on stone/wood/clay etc...

#13: I believe it may be possible and probably very useful to make grinder out of clay, or at least something akin to sandpaper. Basically you can determine the grit of the material by choosing what kind of grog to use, make it into a large round disk, then turn a crank on it's axis to spin it and grind metal, stone or wood against it. This can be really useful to save yourself from the pain of grinding stone or wood tools on a static piece of stone. Although if you can find a well shaped limestone rock or sandstone that will work great for this instead. But just in case you cannot find those this works wonders. It also might be possible to make one out of wood, but then you glue various grit sand/clay to it's surface as needed using sap, then melt it off when you need to. I guess that could work for anything including clay, probably easier to make a large clay disc and safer to melt things off of it.

#14: A possible alternative to the clay/wood sifter would be to make a panning bowl or slate, which allows the bigger stuff to flow away on the top, and the smaller stuff to sink to the bottom. No water is used, unless you're trying to sift for sand or rocks or iron. Actually that makes this pretty adaptable, because you would want to use water to get denser material to sink to the bottom and remove everything else, but you would want to use no water if you want items of same density but smaller particle size to sink to the bottom. It would work even better at retrieving clay if you first smashed the clay source as much as possible before using this.

SUMMARIZATION OF TECHS AND HOW THEY ARE OBTAINED:

Most noteworthy things I've learned: All these things do not contain stuff that already requires significant advancement such as 'steam engine' or 'black ink' even if some of these are components for those techs. Also keep in mind I don't mention all the possibilities here, just the ones I know about and the most important for wildernessCreate. There are many more possible things you can do with any of these materials/techs. For full descriptions of each of these steps follow the survival guide.
RULES: 1: Always provide the node possibilities immediately after they are mentioned by another node. Unless it requires something else, in which case make the node for that other thing first, then do this node.

land - foraging -> hard rocks, trees, mushrooms, animals, trees/wood/bark/sticks, plant cordage, kindling, clay soil, beehive, grain, seeds, nuts, fruit, vegetables, sap, fatwood, shells
sap - used for -> gluing things in place
wood/fatwood - gasification process -> tar and wood gas and charcoal  === fatwood provides more tar and wood gas in exchange for less charcoal.
trees - drill hole with tube placed in it -> sugary water
sugary water - fermenting process -> wine
	     - boiled -> syrup
grain - flour 
flour - crushed and water added left inside container for 5 days -> sourdough starter
sourdough starter - added to flour and water -> leavened bread
		  - small amount added to sweet juice -> wine
mushroom - used for -> decomposing cellulous to provide food for plants/animals/people
	 - plant in shady area on decomposing plants -> mushroom farm
mushroom farm - cut shapes in mycelium -> mycelium foam
 	      - provides -> mushrooms
wood - burned with oxygen produces -> charcoal
     - burned without oxygen produces -> wood ash
soil - mixed with water -> mud/adobe
clay soil - main ingredient for -> kiln, forge, furnace, oven, refined clay
charcoal - fuel for -> kiln, forge
	 - Material use for -> water filter
wood ash - Rinse and strain produces -> lye
	 - main ingredient for -> cement, wood ash pot 
	 - mixed with clay and water -> wood ash glaze
	 - used for -> cleaning without soap technique
adobe/mud - mixed with water and formed into -> furnaces and temporary shelters/workshops
rammed earth -
cob -
refined clay - combine with grog and water -> moldable clay
moldable clay - coil process -> round or flat bottom pots/cups/bowls/containers
	      - left to dry slowly -> greenware
kiln - used with greenware -> terracotta
     - used with terracotta and glaze -> glazed ceramics
forge - used for -> smelting/forging/melting metal
water filter - produces -> filtered water
lye - main ingredient for -> soap
cement - main ingredient for -> grinding wheel
wood ash pot - alternative to -> clay pot
glaze - applied during curing process -> glazed ceramics
terracotta - used for -> plant pot, ouya , evap cooled root cellar, cooling roof tiles, puki, flat slab or cylinder
	   - crushing produces -> grog
puki - used for -> base for more easily making round bottom pots/bowls/cups on turntable surface that also releases the work easily
flat cylinder - used for -> pottery making on flat and turntable surface
pottery wheel - used for -> more efficient and comfortable pottery making
flat slab - used for -> food preparation or earthenware work
ouya - used for -> evaporative cooling drinking bottle, or passive irrigation
brick mold - used for -> forming adobe/mud/clay bricks
glazed ceramics - used for -> food/drink container, cooking pot, insulative roof tiles
sweet fruit - Juicing produces -> sweet juice
sweet juice - left for 1 day or add sourdough starter, then ferment in closed container for 2-3 weeks -> wine
wine - distilled -> alcohol
     - left outside -> vinegar
vinegar - cooked with vegetables -> speeds up softening process and makes more bioavailable for some foods like corn, potatoes, carrots, onions, etc... 
        - cooked with meat -> adds flavor
	- covering food in container -> preserves food
alcohol - used for -> disinfectant
animal - hunt and kill -> animal fat, bone, leather, feather, claw, antler/horn and more...
hard rocks - pecking/knapping process -> stone hammer/axe/adze head, chisel, sharp rocks
sharp rocks - pecking/knapping process -> stone drill/arrow head, stone cutter
celt axe - chopping thin branches/trees and shaping wood -> branch mallet, lengths of wood 1-6 in. diameter
stone drill/arrowhead - drill hole in wood/bark -> fire sticks, impact fire sticks
		      - unlocks -> wood pulley, clay sifter, arrow
fire sticks - unlocks -> fire
impact fire sticks
wood - digging stick making process -> digging stick
branch mallet - hit blunt end of chisel -> make holes in wood
stone chisel - chisel hole with branch mallet -> wooden handle, yoke
stone cutter - making grooves in wood, cutting/chopping plants -> plant strings/vines
plant strings/vines - twist in both hands process -> plant cordage
		    - unlocks -> measuring string
plant cordage - combined with handle and hammer/axe/adze head -> axe, hammer, adze
	      - woven -> basket
	      - knot tying -> nets, ladders
basket - used for -> sifting, carrying non-fluid things, trapping
coil weave basket
twining weave basket
drop spindle
loom
sandals
trapping - in water -> crawdads
antler - tied to handle -> antler pickaxe
antler pickaxe - used for -> digging through stone
animal fat - boiled and strained -> rendered fat
rendered fat - used for -> dipping cloth in it to wrap around wounds to seal/protect from bacteria after already washing with water, and disenfecting with alcohol/wine.
beehive - use smoke to confuse bees -> honey, honeycomb beeswax
beeswax - combined with rendered fat -> fatwax
fatwax - used for -> rub on wood/iron to preserve it
wood pulley - unlocks -> pulley based machines
ironsand/sand sifter - water sifting process -> ironsand, sand === explanation: a concave slab of terracotta that has grooves in it which when combined with running water and soil at an angle traps ironsand or sand itself if at a lighter angle.
ironsand - smelting process -> iron prills
iron prills - sintering process -> iron arrow/spear/axe/adze/pickaxe/hammer/drill/scythe head or cutting blade/saw
iron pickaxe - unlocks -> more efficient and durable mining through solid stone
peg gear - 
capstan - 
yoke - used for -> carrying pots/buckets/baskets of stuff with much less effort
measuring string - unlocks -> relative measurement system (imperial)
relative measurement system - used for -> more accurate recording of lengths for use in calculations of dimensions for things you make.
abacus
circular ruler
stick fan - combined with ceramic air funnel -> ceramic bellows
ceramic air funnel - combined with stick fan -> ceramic bellows
ceramic bellows
pump/cord drill
bow drill
blow pipe
burn bowl  === a log that has indentation burned out with coals and airflow, a great place to boil food with rocks.
wooden tongs
bow
arrow
basket fish trap
spear
atlatl
sling
drystone wall
adobe/mud wall
wattle and daub wall
bark roof
grass thatch roof
ondol  === A tunnel underneath a home which has a fire started at one end, and a exit chimney at the other end. This heats the home efficiently, while preventing possible flame inside the home itself.
charcoal mound - pyrolysis of wood -> charcoal
charcoal pit - pyrolysis of wood -> charcoal
coke making furnace - pyrolysis of charcoal -> coke
coke  === Cleaner burn and faster smelting and melting of iron or other metals because it reaches a higher temp. Not really necessary for most applications. 
weight scale - used for -> Measuring weight of items
shells or calcium carbonate rocks - heated in a fire -> lime
lime - mixed with water -> slaked lime
slaked lime - mixed with sand or crushed teracotta (1 part grog: 2.5 part lime puty ratio) -> roman concrete
roman concrete - alternative to -> clay
	       - used for -> mortar between bricks



==================================================
Explanation of all the processes:
sintering of clay
sintering of metal:
 - use a clay mold to hold pieces of metal together while heating it as hot as possible.
Making coke:
 - You can indirectly make coke by keeping coal/charcoal near the edge of your forge. It's not as dense as the industrial stuff, because it expands more. But I think it should get just as hot. So this is the most simple way to do it. Otherwise if you need it in bulk just pyrolyze charcoal in a oxygen free environment again.
 - You can make bulk amounts of coke by placing charcoal inside a thin clay container with a loose lid, and surrounding it in a fireplace, it will release tar at 1000 deg f. Usually takes 1.5 hours to completely release, you'll be able to tell by checking to see if any more smoke is coming from the charcoal inside the container. Coke burns hotter because the tar and other impurities are burned out of it, These impurities get in the way of the airflow and the combustion process for charcoal.
Smelting/melting metal:
 - The best way to melt metal is to either melt it inside a thin walled clay pot, or to have the flames hitting the metal directly by using a draft furnace, while the metal sits on top of a or drain which has a mold underneath to catch the metal and allow it to form the rough shape you want. Then use blacksmithing techniques from there to further shape/grind/sharpen/harden it.
Foraging technique:
 - The best way to forage if looking for exotic things is to travel as much distance in the shortest amount of time by hiking or marathon running in the wilderness. Make sure you keep a keen eye out for certain things, it also helps if you know or heard of people spotting certain materials in the area you're heading. For example you might come across obsidian while hiking a trail. Just be careful of snakes, scorpions, mountain lions, bears, and other dangerous wildlife that might end your trip quickly.
Making adobe/mud/clay walls:
 - If using mud/adobe, you should mix with straw or dung and form into bricks. If using clay, simply form into bricks. then stack the bricks on top of each other with mortar. The mortar can be the same material the bricks are made from.
Making slaked lime - Easiest to use a mortar and pestle with small amount of water, just crush the shells into the water.
Making a 
SURVIVAL GUIDE

Here are all the things I would do if I needed to survive out in nature:
This guide is in 3 parts:
Part 1: with only the clothes on my back
Part 2: with basic supplies
Part 3: with bugout bag


Part 1: with only the clothes on my back
Priorities:
 - water
 - shelter
 - light
 - food

At first we can only spend enough time to obtain temporary relief for those above priorities, but after we have done that, we can afford time to obtain more permanent solutions.

==================================================
Part 2: with basic supplies
Part 3: with bugout bag
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT GUIDE

Step 1:
 - Find a hard stone



IDEAS: (These are the responses from chatGPT)

Can you explain the simplest way to make bone broth and what are the best types of bones to use?
To make bone broth, you will need:

Bones (chicken, beef, pork, or fish)
Water
Optional: vegetables (onion, carrot, celery), aromatics (garlic, ginger), and herbs (parsley, thyme) for added flavor.
Instructions:

In a large pot or slow cooker, place the bones and any vegetables, aromatics, and herbs you are using.
Cover the bones with water.
Bring the pot to a boil, then reduce the heat and let it simmer.
Simmer the broth for at least 8 hours, or up to 24 hours for a richer flavor.
Strain the broth through a fine-mesh sieve and discard the solids.
Let the broth cool before storing it in the refrigerator or freezer.
The best types of bones to use for bone broth are those with a lot of connective tissue, such as knuckle bones, marrow bones, and neck bones. These bones are rich in collagen, which is a protein that helps to support skin, hair, and nail growth, and also supports gut health. Chicken feet are also a great option as they are very high in collagen.




explain to me the best techniques I can use to sell any product
There are several techniques that can be used to sell a product, including:

Creating a compelling value proposition: This is a clear statement that explains how your product solves a problem or meets a need for your target customer. It should be easy to understand and communicate.

Building a strong brand: A strong brand helps to create trust and credibility with potential customers. This includes creating a consistent visual identity and messaging across all marketing materials.

Networking and building relationships: Building relationships with potential customers, industry influencers, and partners can help to generate leads and increase visibility for your product.

Leveraging social proof: Social proof is evidence that other people have bought and are satisfied with your product. Testimonials, case studies, and customer reviews are all examples of social proof that can help to increase conversions.

Personalized marketing: Personalizing your marketing efforts to the specific needs and interests of your target customer can help to increase engagement and conversions.

Offering a guarantee or free trial: Offering a guarantee or free trial can help to mitigate any risk for the customer and increase their likelihood of making a purchase.

Optimizing for search engines: Ensuring that your product pages are optimized for search engines can help to increase visibility and drive traffic to your site.

Utilizing online and offline advertising: Online and offline advertising can help to increase visibility and drive traffic to your site.

Creating a sense of urgency: Creating a sense of urgency can motivate customers to take action and make a purchase. This can be done through limited-time offers, scarcity tactics, and other strategies.

Measuring and analyzing the performance: Measuring the performance of your sales and marketing efforts can help you to identify what's working and what's not, so you can make adjustments and optimize your strategy.




what shapes inspired mathematics the most and why?
Many shapes have inspired mathematics throughout history, but some of the most notable include:

The Circle: The circle has been a source of inspiration for mathematicians since ancient times. The properties of circles, such as their symmetry and the relationship between their circumference and diameter, have led to the development of many branches of mathematics, including trigonometry and calculus.

The Triangle: Triangles have also been an important shape in mathematics. They have been used to study the properties of angles and the relationships between side lengths, which have led to the development of Euclidean geometry.

The Square: The square is a fundamental shape in mathematics, and it has been used to study the properties of quadrilaterals and the relationships between side lengths.

The Polygon: The study of polygons has led to the development of many branches of mathematics, including number theory and combinatorics.

The Spiral: The spiral has inspired the study of geometric shapes and patterns, as well as the study of the properties of shapes that change over time.

The fractals: The fractals have inspired the study of shapes that are self-similar and have infinite complexity.

Each of these shapes has played an important role in the development of mathematics because they have unique properties that can be studied and applied to various branches of mathematics. They provided the basis for understanding geometric and algebraic properties, trigonometry, number theory, and many other branches of mathematics.



what is the relationship between wisdom and intelligence
Wisdom and intelligence are related but distinct concepts. Intelligence is often defined as the ability to learn from experience, understand complex ideas, and adapt to new situations. Intelligence is commonly measured by intelligence quotient (IQ) tests, which assess cognitive abilities such as memory, problem-solving, and reasoning.

Wisdom, on the other hand, is a broader concept that encompasses not only cognitive abilities but also emotional intelligence and social intelligence. Wisdom is characterized by the ability to make sound judgments and decisions, understand the perspectives of others, and take into account long-term consequences. It also includes the ability to balance emotions and apply knowledge to practical life decisions.

In other words, intelligence is related to cognitive abilities and the ability to process information while wisdom relates to the ability to use that information in a beneficial way. A person can be highly intelligent but lack wisdom, and vice versa.

It is also important to note that wisdom tends to increase with age, as people gain more life experiences and learn from them, while intelligence is relatively stable throughout adulthood.

Therefore, while intelligence and wisdom are related, they are not the same thing and they can be developed separately.




Can you explain the financial principles from the book "The Richest Man in Babylon"?
"The Richest Man in Babylon" is a classic personal finance book written by George S. Clason. The book is set in ancient Babylon and uses parables and fables to teach financial principles.

Some of the key financial principles from the book include:

Pay yourself first: The book advises to save at least 10% of your income before paying any other expenses, in order to build a strong foundation for wealth.

Live below your means: The book advocates living below your means and avoiding unnecessary expenses, in order to have more money available to save and invest.

Invest in income-producing assets: The book emphasizes the importance of investing in assets that generate income, such as rental properties or a business, in order to increase your wealth.

Diversify your investments: The book advises to diversify your investments across different types of assets, such as stocks, bonds, and real estate, in order to reduce risk and increase the chances of success.

Be patient and disciplined: The book stresses the importance of being patient and disciplined in your approach to investing and building wealth, rather than trying to get rich quickly.

Seek advice from experts: The book encourages seeking advice from experts and experienced investors in order to learn from their successes and mistakes.

Continual learning: The book also encourages continuously learning and educating oneself in order to make better investment decisions.

Control your expenses: The book advises to be mindful of your expenses and to keep them under control.

Stay away from debt: The book advises to avoid debt as much as possible, as it can hinder your ability to save and invest.

These principles are timeless and still relevant today. They serve as a foundation for good financial decision making and for building wealth over time.




What is the best strategy for someone overcoming an addiction?
Overcoming an addiction can be a challenging and difficult process, but there are several strategies that can be helpful:

Seeking professional help: It is important to seek help from a qualified healthcare professional, such as a physician, therapist, or counselor. They can help to diagnose the addiction and develop a treatment plan that is tailored to the individual's needs.

Joining a support group: Support groups, such as Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous, can provide a sense of community and support for those who are trying to overcome an addiction. They can also offer helpful advice and guidance on how to deal with specific challenges.

Practicing mindfulness: Mindfulness techniques, such as meditation and deep breathing, can help to reduce stress and cravings, and improve overall well-being.

Staying active and healthy: Staying physically active and eating a healthy diet can help to improve overall health and well-being, which can in turn make it easier to resist cravings and triggers.

Creating a strong support system: Surrounding oneself with friends and family members who can provide emotional support and encouragement is an important part of overcoming an addiction.

Identifying triggers: Identifying the situations, people, emotions, and behaviors that trigger the addiction, and developing strategies to avoid or cope with these triggers.

Finding healthy alternatives: Finding healthy activities, hobbies or interests that can provide a sense of purpose and fulfillment in order to replace the addiction.

Long-term commitment: Overcoming addiction is a long-term commitment, and it may take time, effort and patience to achieve. Relapse is common and should be seen as a part of the recovery process.

It's important to keep in mind that what works for one person may not work for another, and it's essential to find a treatment plan that suits the individual's needs. Seeking professional help, joining a support group, and having a strong support system are all key strategies for overcoming addiction.




I want to make a garden that uses different types of fertilizer and compost in its ecosystem. There will be designated areas or processing stations for different types as follows:
 - one area must use mushrooms to efficiently decompose dead plant matter
 - one area must use mushrooms to efficiently decompose leftover food
 - one area must use mushrooms to efficiently decompose dead animal and insect carcasses
 - A separate area without mushrooms must be efficient for processing human or animal feces and urine into fertilizer
Please explain to me which mushroom or fungi strains are best for each individual processing station. Then explain to me how to safely apply the resulting product to my garden without letting it get infected by any of the mushrooms. Then finally, please explain to me if it is a good idea to allow any mushroom strain to become part of my garden.
There are several mushroom strains that are commonly used for decomposing different types of organic matter:

For decomposing dead plant matter, the mushroom strain Pleurotus ostreatus (Oyster mushroom) is often used. This strain is known for its ability to break down woody materials, such as straw, sawdust, and logs.

For decomposing leftover food, the mushroom strain Agaricus bisporus (white button mushroom) is often used. This strain is known for its ability to break down a wide range of organic matter, including fruits, vegetables, and grains.

For decomposing dead animal and insect carcasses, the mushroom strain Hericium erinaceus (Lion's mane mushroom) is often used. This strain is known for its ability to break down protein-rich materials, such as meat and fish.

For processing human or animal feces and urine into fertilizer, the mushroom strain Phanerochaete chrysosporium is often used. This strain is known for its ability to break down complex organic compounds and neutralize harmful pathogens.

To safely apply the resulting product to your garden, it is important to make sure that the compost has reached a high enough temperature to kill any potential pathogens or harmful bacteria. You should also allow the compost to cure for several weeks or months before applying it to your garden, to ensure that the decomposition process is complete and the material is safe to use as a fertilizer.

It's also important to consider that some mushroom strains are more aggressive than others and can take over your garden if you don't control them. It is a good idea to limit the area that you dedicate to mushroom cultivation, and to be mindful of the strains you select and how you maintain them. It is also important to keep in mind that some mushroom strains are toxic, so it's important to research and select mushroom strains that are safe for your specific use case.

In summary, using mushrooms for decomposing different types of organic matter can be an efficient way to create compost for your garden. It's important to use the appropriate mushroom strain for each type of organic matter, ensure that the compost is safe to use, and to be mindful of the mushroom strains you select and how you maintain them.




Can you explain the most simple and straightforward way for me to create safe fertilizer from human/animal feces and urine?
Creating safe fertilizer from human and animal feces and urine can be done through a process called composting. Composting is a natural process that uses microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi to break down organic matter. The end result is a nutrient-rich fertilizer that can be used to improve soil health and plant growth.

Here is a simple and straightforward way to create safe fertilizer from human/animal feces and urine:

Build a compost bin: You will need a bin to contain the organic matter during the composting process. The bin can be made of wood, plastic, or other materials.

Add the organic matter: You can add the feces and urine to the bin along with other organic matter such as leaves, grass clippings, food scraps, and sawdust.

Add water: The organic matter should be moist but not waterlogged. You can add water to the bin to help maintain the proper moisture level.

Turn the compost: Regularly turn the compost with a pitchfork or other tool to aerate it and help the microorganisms break down the organic matter.

Monitor the temperature: The compost should reach a temperature between 120F and 150F. This temperature range will kill any harmful pathogens and parasites.

Wait for the compost to cure: Allow the compost to cure for several weeks or months before using it as a fertilizer. The compost will be ready when it is dark and crumbly, and has a pleasant earthy smell.

Apply the fertilizer: Spread the compost on your garden or lawn. It is important to use it safely following the manufacturer's instructions and local regulations.

It's important to note that creating safe fertilizer from human/animal feces and urine can be a complex process and requires specific knowledge, it is important to consult with experts, such as a local extension agent or a waste management professional, to ensure that the process is done safely and in compliance with local regulations.

It's also important to keep in mind that it is not safe or legal to use human waste as fertilizer in most places and that it's only safe to use urine and feces from animals that are not ill.




I know that some organisms require certain basic things to live. For example, plants require sunlight, CO2, water, and basic fertilizer. But what things do mushrooms require to live?
Mushrooms are a type of fungi, and like other organisms, they have specific requirements for growth and survival. Some of the things that mushrooms require to live include:

Nutrients: Mushrooms require a variety of nutrients to grow, including carbohydrates, proteins, minerals, and vitamins. These nutrients are typically found in the substrate (growing medium) on which the mushrooms are grown. Common substrates include wood chips, straw, sawdust, and compost.

Moisture: Mushrooms require a high level of moisture to grow and survive. The substrate should be kept moist, but not waterlogged, to ensure that the mushrooms have access to the water they need.

Temperature: Different mushroom species have different temperature requirements, but most prefer temperatures between 60-70F (15-21C). Some species, like Agaricus bisporus (white button mushroom), prefer cooler temperatures while others, like Pleurotus ostreatus (Oyster mushroom), prefer warmer temperatures.

Light: Most mushrooms do not require direct sunlight to grow, but some species, like Agaricus bisporus (white button mushroom), need a little bit of light for optimal growth.

Carbon Dioxide: Mushrooms require a certain level of CO2 to grow, but the level varies depending on the mushroom species. Some species, like Agaricus bisporus (white button mushroom), require a high level of CO2, while others, like Pleurotus ostreatus (Oyster mushroom), require a lower level.

Oxygen: Some mushroom species, like Pleurotus ostreatus (Oyster mushroom) require a high level of oxygen, while others, like Agaricus bisporus (white button mushroom), require lower levels.

pH: Some mushroom species prefer a neutral pH while others prefer acidic conditions.

Inoculum: Inoculum refers to spores or spawn (mycelium) of the mushroom. It is necessary for mushroom cultivation and it is the way to introduce the mushroom strain into the substrate.

By providing the right combination of these factors, you can create an environment that is suitable for growing mushrooms. Keep in mind that the specific requirements for each mushroom species may vary and it's important to research the specific requirements for the mushroom strain you plan to cultivate.

If I decompose food using white button mushroom, how will I know when it is done decomposing and ready to be put into my garden as fertilizer?
When decomposing food using white button mushrooms, it's important to monitor the process to ensure that the food is properly decomposed and safe to use as fertilizer. Here are a few ways to tell when the decomposition process is complete:

Odor: As the food decomposes, it will release an odor. Once the odor is no longer present, it's a good indication that the decomposition process is complete.

Size: As the food decomposes, it will shrink in size. Once the food has shrunk to a small fraction of its original size, it's likely that the decomposition process is complete.

Color: As the food decomposes, it will change color. Once the food has turned dark brown or black, it's likely that the decomposition process is complete.

Texture: As the food decomposes, it will become mushy and lose its original texture. Once the food has lost its texture and become a wet, mushy consistency, it's likely that the decomposition process is complete.

Time: Depending on the type of food, the size of the pile, and the temperature, the decomposition process can take anywhere from a few days to several weeks.

It's important to note that you should not use the resulting product as fertilizer if it has any mold, bad smell or if it doesn't pass the test of the above mentioned indicators. It's also important to consult with a horticulturist or an agriculture professional to make sure that the resulting product is safe and suitable for your specific plants and garden.




jargurr12@gmail.com
if a fungi does all the work to decompose the food, then how will I know if the fungi is finished? Do I have to kill the fungi first? Or can I put the decomposing food and mushroom/mycelium directly in the garden even when the mushroom is alive?
If a fungi is decomposing the food, it's important to monitor the process to ensure that the fungi has completed the decomposition process and that the resulting product is safe to use as fertilizer. Here are a few ways to tell when the decomposition process is complete:

Size: As the fungi decomposes the food, the size of the mycelium will decrease. Once



jargurr12@gmail.com
After the decomposition process is complete, do I have to kill the fungi? Or wait until it dies naturally? Or is it ok to place the mushroom and decaying matter directly on a garden bed?
After the decomposition process is complete, it is not necessary to kill the fungi. The mycelium, the vegetative part of the fungus, will die naturally as it runs out of food. However, it's important to note that some species of fungi can be invasive and can potentially harm your plants, so it's important to consult with a horticulturist or an agriculture professional before adding the decomposed matter directly to your garden. They can also advise you if it's necessary to kill the fungi before adding it to your garden.

It's also important to note that the decomposed food and mushroom should be used as a soil amendment or composted further before adding to the garden bed. The decomposed food should be well mixed with other organic materials such as leaves, grass clippings, or other plant debris to ensure a balanced nutrient addition to the soil. Using it directly without mixing it with other organic materials may cause an imbalanced nutrient addition which can damage the plants.




jargurr12@gmail.com
What is a good way of killing the fungi before placing it and the decaying matter in the garden bed?
There are a few ways to kill the fungi before adding it to the garden bed, but it's important to consult with a horticulturist or an agriculture professional to determine the best method for your specific situation.

Heat: Applying heat to the decomposed matter can kill the fungi. This can be done by using a thermometer to ensure that the temperature reaches at least 160-170 degrees Fahrenheit (71-77 degrees Celsius) for several hours.

Sunlight: Exposure to sunlight can also kill the fungi. This can be done by leaving the decomposed matter in a sunny spot for several days.

Chemicals: Certain chemicals such as hydrogen peroxide, vinegar or lime juice can be used to kill the fungi. However, it's important to use these chemicals with caution, as they can also harm other microorganisms and should be used only under the guidance of a professional.

Drying: Drying the decomposed matter for several days can also kill the fungi.

It's important to note that these methods may not be suitable for all types of fungi, and it's important to consult with a horticulturist or an agriculture professional to determine the best method for your specific situation. They can also advise you if it's necessary to kill the fungi before adding it to your garden. Additionally, it's important to follow proper safety precautions when handling and disposing of the decomposed matter, as it can contain harmful microorganisms.




jargurr12@gmail.com
How effective is vinegar at killing mold and fungi? Will it work on every known strain? Or are there some strains that would survive? Also how much vinegar would you need to apply on mold or fungi?
Vinegar is known to be effective at killing some strains of mold and fungi. The acidity of vinegar makes it a good natural disinfectant and it can help to break down the cell walls of mold and fungi. White vinegar, in particular, has a high acidity level of around 5% acetic acid which makes it effective at killing mold and fungi.

It's important to note that vinegar is not effective at killing all strains of mold and fungi, and it's not considered a registered fungicide by the EPA. Some strains of mold and fungi have developed resistance to vinegar and may survive when exposed to it. In addition, vinegar is not effective at killing mold and fungi growing on porous surfaces such as drywall, wood, or insulation, as the mold and fungi will grow deep into the pores and vinegar may not reach it.

To use vinegar to kill mold or fungi, you can mix one part vinegar with one part water in a spray bottle and apply it directly to the mold or fungi. You can also use it undiluted. It's important to spray the solution until the mold or fungi is visibly wet and let it sit for at least an hour before wiping it off. Repeat this process until all mold or fungi is removed.

It's important to note that after cleaning the mold or fungi with vinegar, it's important to remove the source of the moisture, such as leaks or high humidity, to prevent it from growing back. If the mold or fungi keep growing back, it's important to consult with a professional as it may indicate a bigger problem.




jargurr12@gmail.com
would alcohol work to kill mold or fungi?
Alcohol, specifically ethyl alcohol, can be effective at killing some strains of mold and fungi. Alcohol has antifungal properties that can help to kill and prevent the growth of mold and fungi. The high alcohol content in products such as rubbing alcohol (isopropyl alcohol) or grain alcohol (ethyl alcohol) can help to break down the cell walls of mold and fungi and dehydrate them, making it difficult for them to survive.

It's important to note that alcohol may not be effective at killing all strains of mold and fungi. Some strains of mold and fungi have developed resistance to alcohol and may survive when exposed to it. Additionally, alcohol is not effective at killing mold and fungi growing on porous surfaces such as drywall, wood, or insulation, as the mold and fungi will grow deep into the pores and alcohol may not reach it.

To use alcohol to kill mold or fungi, you can mix one part alcohol with one part water in a spray bottle and apply it directly to the mold or fungi. It's important to spray the solution until the mold or fungi is visibly wet and let it sit for at least an hour before wiping




jargurr12@gmail.com
would sunlight and drying process work to kill all strains of mold or fungi?
Exposure to sunlight and the drying process can be effective at killing some strains of mold and fungi, as high temperatures and low humidity can make it difficult for mold and fungi to survive. Sunlight can also help to break down the cell walls of mold and fungi and dehydrate them, making it difficult for them to survive.

It's important to note that sunlight and the drying process may not be effective at killing all strains of mold and fungi. Some strains of mold and fungi have developed resistance to high temperatures and low humidity and may survive when exposed to them. Additionally, exposure to sunlight and drying process may not be effective at killing mold and fungi growing deep in porous surfaces such as drywall, wood, or insulation, as the mold and fungi will grow deep into the pores and sunlight and dryness may not reach it.

It's also important to note that although sunlight




jargurr12@gmail.com
please continue
can be effective at killing mold and fungi, it's important to remove the source of the moisture, such as leaks or high humidity, to prevent it from growing back. If the mold or fungi keep growing back, it's important to consult with a professional as it may indicate a bigger problem.

It's also important to note that it's not practical to rely only on sunlight and drying process to kill mold and fungi especially if the mold and fungi have already spread widely and visibly, it's important to use other methods such as cleaning with detergents or disinfectants and removing the affected materials.

It's important to consult with a professional if you're not sure of the type of mold or fungi you're dealing with and how to handle it safely and effectively. They can help you to identify the mold or fungi and recommend the best course of action to remove it and prevent it from growing back.




jargurr12@gmail.com
what are some ways to tell if a mushroom is safe for plants
There are a few ways to tell if a mushroom is safe for plants:

Consult with a mycologist or a mushroom expert: A professional can help you to identify the mushroom and determine if it's safe to use as a soil amendment or compost.

Research the mushroom species: Look up the mushroom species and check if it has any known toxic properties or if it's known to be invasive or harmful to plants.

Check for visual signs of spoilage or mold: If a mushroom looks spoiled or has mold growing on it, it's not safe to use as fertilizer.

Smell the mushroom: If it has an off smell, it's not safe to use as a fertilizer.

Avoid mushrooms that grow wild on lawns, roadsides or other areas where they may have been exposed to pollutants or pesticides.

It's important to note that although most mushrooms are safe for plants, some species can be toxic or harmful to plants and animals, so it's important to be sure of the mushroom species and to use them with caution, and it's always better to consult with a professional.




jargurr12@gmail.com
Is there a way to tell just by looking at a mushroom and examining it with some tests and experiments whether it is safe for plants? Can you give some examples of experiments I could try to determine this?
It can be difficult to determine the safety of a mushroom for plants just by looking at it and conducting simple tests or experiments. Identifying a mushroom species with accuracy is a complex task that requires knowledge of the mushroom's characteristics and a trained eye. However, you can conduct some tests and experiments to determine if a mushroom is safe for plants:

Spore print test: You can take a spore print by placing a mature mushroom cap gills down on a sheet of paper or glass and leaving it overnight. The next day you can examine the color and pattern of the spores to help identify the mushroom species. Some poisonous mushrooms have a different spore color than the edible ones.

Bruising test: Some mushrooms change color when they are bruised or cut. Some poisonous mushrooms have a distinct color change when bruised.

Microscopic examination: You can examine the mushroom's cells and spores under a microscope to help identify the species.

Toxicity test: you can test the mushroom's toxicity by boiling a small piece of it and applying it to the skin or feed it to a small animal such as a chicken or a rabbit, and observe if there's any adverse reaction.

It's important to note that these tests and experiments are not foolproof, and it's always best to consult with a mycologist or a mushroom expert to determine the safety of a mushroom for plants.

Also, it's important to note that some mushrooms have similar characteristics and can be difficult to identify. Therefore, it's important to be very careful and not to consume any wild mushrooms unless you are 100% sure of the mushroom's identification.




jargurr12@gmail.com
Those tests you described are good for checking if it is safe for humans, but I'm wondering if it is safe for the health of my plants. For example, are there lots of mushroom strains that kill their neighboring plants? Also, are there any mushroom species that can leak poison into the plants unnoticed and if you eat the fruit of the plant you could get sick or harmed from it?
Some mushroom species can be harmful to plants, while others can be beneficial. Some mushroom species can act as decomposers, breaking down dead plant matter and returning nutrients to the soil. Some mushroom species can act as mycorrhizal fungi, forming a symbiotic relationship with the roots of plants and increasing their ability to absorb nutrients and water.

However, some mushroom species can be invasive and compete with plants for resources such as water and nutrients. Some mushroom species can produce toxins that can harm or kill plants.

As for the second part of your question, some mushroom species can produce toxins that can leach into the soil and potentially be absorbed by plants. These toxins can then be present in the fruit or vegetables grown in the soil, posing a risk to humans or animals that consume them.

It's important to research the mushroom species you are considering using as a fertilizer or soil amendment to determine if it's known to be harmful to plants. It's also important to note that even if a mushroom is safe for plants, it may not be safe for human consumption.

It's important to consult with a mycologist or a mushroom expert to determine the safety of a mushroom for plants and to use them with caution. It's also important to monitor your plants regularly to ensure they are healthy and not showing any signs of stress or harm.



==================================================
FITNESS:

For each of the below methods I'll ask chatgpt to validate my ideas for maintenance/strength/endurance of various parts of body like heart etc...

I am trying to imagine a all-encompassing minimal exercise program. All-encompassing means it is meant to focus on all aspects of fitness and strength. The fitness pyramid goes like this:
heart, gut, lungs, joints, tendons, muscles, nervous system and control/skill
your bones and your brain get healthier and stronger from the exercises that develop the above systems

Each of these categories needs varying degrees of maintenance and strength/endurance training. Basically all need daily maintenance, but strength/endurance improvement is usually weekly or bi-weekly.

The goal of this is to let you reach your physical goals as quickly as possible, and thereafter allow you to maintain your progress while staying extremely alert without needing nearly as much sleep. You'll need more sleep during development, but thereafter you won't need sleep anymore, you will likely need breaks from one activity by going to another, which is a form of rest without sleep. 

Heart maintenance: 5x5min every day
 - Anything that involves movement of entire body with low impact to joints and avoids holding contracted muscles (because that prevents bloodflow). For example: step ups, or stepping in all directions in various ways (try to count to a high number of steps) This helps increase fynovial fluid in spine and hip and joints if you allow those joints to be mobile during the exercises.
Heart endurance development:
 - Same as heart maintenance but without breaks going for as long as possible, think like a marathon, triathlon, etc...
Heart strength development:
 - strength training without any breaks between. Things like a cycle of pushups, situps, squats, jumps, ballistics, low/medium weight training, hiking with heavy pack etc... for as long as feels comfortable for you.

Gut health:
Here is what you should eat for a healthy gut:
 - bone broth
 - vegetable soup/broth
 - herbal tea
 - no sugar, carbs, fats or protein (no macronutrients) except on every 3rd day.

lung maintenance: >5 min every day
 - Tai chi or wimm hoff breathing or simple deep breathing exercises (5 min)
lung endurance: same as heart endurance
lung strength:
 - Forcing air through pressure like a straw or balloon. Also the reverse of that trying to breath through some resistance
 - high altitude training (improves efficiency of converting oxygen to energy in blood)

joints maintenance: 3x5min per day
 - Same as heart maintenance so make sure the heart maintenance you do includes movements that allow motion for as many joints as possible, especially spine and hip.
joint endurance dev:
 - 
joint strength dev:
 - 

tendon maintenance: 3x5min per day
 - Same as heart maintenance, but also see list of possible exercises for tendons. eccentric exercises seem to do good.
 - NOTE: tendons, vs ligaments, vs fascia: tendons connect muscle to bone, ligaments connect bone to bone, and fascia connect muscle to muscle.
tendon endurance dev:
 - 
tendon strength dev: 
 - Hold a muscle in a stretched position, then add some immovable resistance and attempt to resist against it by as if to contract the muscle to move it. Any time you attempt to push against something with your muscle in a stretched position, this will strengthen your tendons to be stronger
tendon toughness dev:
 - tai chi impact training (tougher tendons)

muscle maintenance: 3x5min per day
 - Same as heart maintenance, though perhaps more calisthenic strength movements such as burpees, planks, wall sits, low rep medium resistance training. Also include stretches before and afterward if you did not perform tendon strength dev or tendon maintenance.
muscle endurance dev:
 - Same as heart strength
muscle strength dev: 
 - Anything which contracts the muscle with resistance. Various types include resistance, weight training, 
muscle toughness dev:
 - tai chi impact training

nervous system maintenance: >5 min per day 
 - cold bath is a good example
nervous system endurance dev: >5 min per day 
 - cold bath for long time and add any other nervous system marathon activities you want.
nervous system toughness dev: >5 min per day 
 - coldest bath you can handle, or any other nervous system intense activities you want to try. (example high dive, cliff diving, rock climbing, anything you fear that also makes your nervous system increase intensity of senses that can overwhelm you )

balance/control/skill maintenance: >30 min per week
 - Any sport or recreational activity, or even physical work/labor itself.
balance/control/skill development: As much time as you can spare per week
 - Any sport or recreational activity, or even physical work/labor itself limited to just what feels good in activity and duration

If you follow this program exactly, once you've reached your physical goals you can maintain while being able to stay up 23 hours per day, and rest only 1 hour per day. Also be able to sleep 4 hours per week. In other words you'll be exceptionally active and productive, your brain will be healthier, and if it does get tired then follow my brain training program as well to develop/maintain it.

Example routine based on lifestyle: 
Week 1: Maintenance to get in the habit of maintaining and to recover from bad habits:
Day 1-5: 
 - get up, and spend 10 min doing some light heart maintenance to increase bloodflow and mobility and fynovial fluid in spine/hips/joints.
 - Do anything for 2 hours
 - Do 10 min of tendon maintenance, 
 - Do optional cool bath or other nervous system training
 - Eat breakfast of veggie soup or herbal tea
 - Do anything for 2 hours
 - Do 10 min of muscle maintenance and 5 min of stretching (can do 2.5 min before and 2.5 min after)
 - Do anything for 4-8 hours (here is where you can do your optional balance/control/skill maintenance, or just do work/errands/productivity)
 - Do 10 min of heart maintenance
 - Do 10 min of muscle maintenance and 5 min stretching
 - Eat dinner of veggie soup or herbal tea or main course meal if it is day 3
 - Do anything for 2 hours
 - Sleep

Week 2: Development to increase bone/muscle/tendon/heart strength/mass/endurance

Jan 28 2023:
 - I had a idea for a new system I've been thinking about for a while. It's called the anchor pulley system. Basically you can have various anchor points on the walls and roof and floor of your gym area, and also have anchor bands that can go on various parts of your body. For arms, legs and waist you should have a cushion that wraps around with a loop for attaching to the pulley rope. You should also have a comfortable handle or bar that you can use as well. And for the head/neck, you can have a wrap that goes around your head and chin, and it should have a loop on the chin and on the front of the head, and on the back.
 Now, here is the important part, there needs to be multiple pulleys, and this requires some experimentation. If you have one pulley on one loop, the resistance only goes one direction, and that is good for many routines, but it has it's limits. Our bodies actually do better when we have resistance going against it in multiple directions. Not opposite directions, just multiple. For example, lets say you are doing tricep press with a barbell, the weight is only going straight down, but if you have a band or pulley attached vertically that adds lateral resistance, then suddenly you have something to push down against once you reach the top of the movement, because at a certain point, the downward resistance is not affecting your lateral movement that you're doing with the tricep press. The reason you want pulleys and anchor points in all sorts of places is for you to be able to work any muscle group, and any tendons at any time.

==================================================

Bees are required for certain plants to bear fruit, some apple trees are like this. You can attract bees with flowers, or bring hives to your property.
Any type of bee works, not just honey bees. (Maybe wasps work?)
