Knowledge Scrolls

This page is how everything connects together and the power of each knowledge scroll is found in the enlightenment it gives about how everything works together and helps you make your own higher resolution conclusions.
Knowledge is only useful in the context where it is used. Thus I don't just make general statements, since they can be incorrect in some contexts, and very correct in others. So all I speak about is in the context of some important goal.

knowledge also is fleeting. It goes away, thus the knowledge here must be preserved by warrior monks willing to defend the precious truths and not allow corruption to infect it's pages. I don't mind if many people make their own versions and copies, that is fine. But recognize if you want any truth in them to persist and not be corrupted for your version or mine, you'll need to guard them as if they were precious jewels. There can be multiple temples with different doctrines in each one, that is what most churches are. The most important job for any church or temple is to preserve knowledge that was obtained through great sacrifice and pain. That is what makes them spiritual, and the fact that those charged with preserving them must be thoroughly vetted and trained to change their spirit to be aligned with this goal and nothing else. That is a spiritual endeavor, as nothing else can ensure the safety of records or purity of truth. In a way this is always how truth can persist in this corrupt world, you must have those willing to train for the sole purpose of defending them. Temples are useful because they are a location that monks can go to, and live at just for the purpose of protecting precious knowledge. In this way it is a spiritual endeavor that tests those in charge of it's safekeeping because if any corruption affects their hearts then how could they be trusted? This is why in Asian cultures it has always been a rigorous process and meant to be only for those with real intent on preserving truth. If anyone has a better way of protecting knowledge please tell me. This is meant as a glossary of truth for people to look up for a strict purpose of being able to survive in the world, and understand how life sustains itself, and also how technological progress is made. Thus this is a quick reference to many important things related to that purpose, and therefore if it is lost to time that is ok, because anyone can look at this world and make the same discoveries, it will just take a lot more time. I had the benefit of individuals on the internet and books to inspire and inform me. The wisdom of these pages cannot last unfortunately, not in this world. But they will be common knowledge in the eternities. In fact that is what this book aims to be, the most impactful common realities affecting all living things, which if understood will make our lives better. To me IQ is about how fast your processing power is, but knowledge itself is obtained simply by understanding it which is more complex of a process than IQ. That is why we don't have any sophisticated way to measure understanding yet. We can measure someones understanding of a subject, but not of all subjects. IQ is meant to measure a single thing, but you cannot measure someone's depth of understanding, unless you get specific. This is why IQ is hereditary and affected by our health when we are raised, but knowledge is something even people of the lowest IQ's can understand. If I explain to someone that a butterfly has wings, if they are at least capable of understanding language then they will understand that, They may not understand all that it means or what the implications are for that, but they will understand that. I can further explain the implications to them later on and they can understand that as well.
To be honest any knowledge is not required to make it through this life. God provides us all the light we need to complete whatever our mission in life is. Thus we do not need to stress or worry about guarding knowledge so much, guarding knowledge of temporal things is not as important. Since God is the Light that will send us more light in the moments we need it most. These things may be enlightening, but they are by no means required in order to be a good person and pass our test in this life. In fact it can needlessly distract us from our main missions if we are not careful. worshipping our creator is far more important and fulfilling than the worship of knowledge. So I'll continue to document things here which are relevant as they appear, but I won't stress about this much, one day if I can do this for a career then it can be useful and fun, but not to replace my other life responsibilities.

I have realized that what this page is really about is doing more with less. The more we understand the fundamentals of our reality, the more things we can do with less material possessions. 

Gardening:
 - The idea behind life is that each living organism can process nutrients by making them either more bioavailable for other organisms to digest, or by converting them into completely different and more useful nutrients for other types of life. Learning to understand this principle is key for gardening, hunting, and generally having a sustainable clean diet for you and your family. In a way we are all digesting and converting things all the time. Beyond this, there is another thing that many organisms do, and that is depend on each other in symbiotic relationships. Mycelium and mushrooms connect to the roots of plants and because they can reach farter with their hyphae, can actually grab nutrients farther away and provide them to the plants. It acutally works in a network to consume nutrients and share it with the plants it connects to. though this is not the whole store, there is much more to this, because there are also many plants that have extremely large root systems that interconnect many seemingly separate plants. The more we come to understand this principle the better we will be able to understand how to work with plants and mushrooms to provide food for ourselves and other animals. That is in fact where it all starts, at least with regard to understanding how to continue living ourselves.
 - almost every living thing is fertilizer that can provide nutrients for various other organisms. Every living thing is a factory that takes in a certain nutrient combination and converts it into another combination of nutrients. For example plants convert oxygen/nitrogen/water/carbon dioxide, and many other less important nutrients into cellulose and sugars. Animals and humans consume the sugars and sometimes the cellulose of plants, but there is often a lot of waste, since humans cannot or should not eat things like the cob of corn, or the stalks of wheat. Even animals/insects cannot be completely relied upon for this in many cases. So the real worker we have to thank for breaking down waste cellulose and many other waste products is mold/fungi. These break down into nutrients that are good fertilzer for plants and sometimes even edible for animals/insects/humans, but mostly the purpose is converting dead things into plant food to get some of the more unusual but still vitally important nutrients that plants need. There is an important stipulation of course, because if mold could grow on any living thing it would be very dangerous, it in fact has it's limits. It will not grow in absence of water or in too much sunlight. So the best recipe as a gardener for breaking down dead plants/wasted food into fertilizer is to place the waste in a shaded area and water it occasionally, and if possible manually place mushroom in it of the kind you want to grow. Mushrooms themselves if you choose a safe strain is very healthy and nutritious and even tasty in many meals for humans. In fact as a gardener it is recommended that you have a area for processing of waste plants/food to become protein, vitamins, minerals and anioxidants and another place for human/animal fecal matter to process into nitrogen rich fertilizer. Of course there are safety concerns for both, so you must learn about and understand these things properly. But the ideal and most healthy and simple way to get your plants the nutrients they need, and if you eat them the nutrients you need is to have both of these designated areas for processing waste into nutrients for plants. 

Life cycle:
 - Life can be made largely of a few basic components and still function, but essential nutrients make life healthy.
 - Starting with plants, the life cycle goes like this: Plants grow from nutrients in the earth. When plants die, they provide food for various things, but if nothing else eats them, then fungi will, however, fungi will only grow if there is moisture available and if it is in a shaded area. Once the fungi has converted the cellulose in plants into mycelium, it has effectively extracted the nutrients and converted into mushrooms and mycelium. Mycelium/mushrooms can die and become nutrition for plants and other organisms tending to be more nutritious than simple decaying plant matter. Animals eat plants and other animals to get their nutrition, and when they die, many insects and animals can obtain nutrition from them. While they are alive animals provide useful nutrition for plants and insects by converting food into nitrogen rich fecal matter. nitrogen happens to be the 3rd most important nutrient for plants, before that is carbon dioxide and water. 



The goal of tech trees in general, especially primitive ones, is 
1: To make sure the use of the technology serves one of the goals for independance in some way. 
2: To come up with methods to create things in the most Universally Applicable Way (UAW). 
3: To make sure that the method is as simple and straightforward and as easy as possible. Avoiding overly complicated and tricky methods wherever possible. 
4: To make sure that the method is as efficient as possible, sacrificing as little materials and energy as possible in order to complete the process effectively.

Root:
In order to understand how to master material science, you first have to understand the principle that a 'science' is not a how-to guide, but rather a specific tool, fashioned for a specific field. But you are able to come up with your own tools by your recognition of certain patterns. For instance, Geometry, is a tool we have developed and is widely used and is the best tool we have for understanding shapes in mathematics. However, if you are unlearned in geometry, and have no access to learn about this tool, you can come up with your own kind of geometry, and this can be very beneficial because you can greatly simplify the geometry concepts based on your needs/goals, and the other benefit is it helps you learn the concepts of intelligent design, and if you do decide to learn the widely used form of geometry, you can understand it better and be able to compare it's strengths and weaknesses to your own geometry. Perhaps you can make a hybrid of the two systems if they both have features you would like to keep. I use this example, because mathematics is likely the most unchanging field of study, and yet you can still develop your own form of it, there are many other fields that it would make more sense for you to study and personally develop your own variation of. But really any field of study can have inumerable variations of tools. 

#1: compressed air tanks have several flaws. one main one is that They require a high pressure tank systems to fill and contain, which is a high level technology and expensive to aquire. An alternative method can work for diving at least in shallow water 30 feet. That is the method of using a electric battery to cause electrolysis underwater, or even better a chemical reacting device that reacts something to produce the exact mixture of nitrogen and oxygen you might need for diving. Either of these methods reduces that flaw mentioned for compressed air tanks. 

#2: It's difficult for people to create glass the old fashioned way, we should still work towards doing so, and find out the most universally applicable way. But an alternative does exist, it is possible to dissolve existing soda lime glass (SiO4) using hydrafluoric acid and possibly regrow it as crystals of high purity for clear optical lenses. Or maybe a better option is to distill silicon from rice husk ash or diotamaceous earth which will produce pure silicon which also might be useful in synthesizing glass. After that it's only a matter of growing glass in the exact shape and size we need.

#3: If you require good cool air flow in your home to lower the heat constantly, it might be beneficial to create a windcatcher or a varation of one, and also to add lots of points to the edges of your home, and if you're in arid low-humidity climate to add a place for water to sit on the roof (or perhaps in an attic with air flow) in order to greatly cool the inside of the shelter. Since the water will lose the hotter molecules which float away naturally, especially in wind, and leave behind the colder water molecules, which will cool down the roof of your house, sucking away heat from inside more effectively, this combined with good insulation can help a lot. Or if you use a full on wind catcher, that can also help, but a wind catcher usually needs to be quite large and tall to be very effective, so it might be simpler just to have a place to put undrinkable water on the roof. 

#4: For food preservation, digging a hole and placing a clay lid with a bowl shape filled with water on top, will allow the food to stay much cooler because of the water wicking methods ability to cool the clay bowl and thus cool the roof of the fridge thus keeping the fridge much cooler. Also since it's in the ground, it has great insulation, and when you pick up the lid the cool air doesn't leak out nearly as much as when you open a fridge with a side door.

#5: For cool drinking water, making a normal clay pot similar to olla(Native american) or botijo(Mexico) or matkas(India). Any design like these will work to have very refreshing tasty cool water, it even slightly purifies the water supposedly.

#6: For cool shelters, Railroad workers would sometimes set up shelters with burlap drapped over top and hanging on the sides, which when water gets drizzled on it, the inside of the shelter gets extremely cool around 30 degrees cooler than outside.

#7: (Relative Measurement) The imperial system of measurement was never intended to be standardized. The way we know this is because it was used for many years before being standardized. It wasn't until a king decided his foot should be the standard, that we started down the path of standardization. Now this doesn't mean we shouldn't have standardized it, or that a standard system of measurement isn't needed. We do need a standard system, but we also need a relative system. Why? Because a relative system allows someone without any tools to measure things. The imperial system is actually kind of neat when you know how to use it. As long as you are using it non-commercially. It's especially useful for the wildernessCreate guide, where you might start off with nothing and have to build your own system of measurement. The metric system was clearly designed to be a standard everywhere. We don't even have a unit for micro or nano sized things, only micrometer and nanometer are used, which we are forced to borrow from the metric system. The imperial system has smaller units than inch, but almost nobody has heard of them, at least I hadn't when I began researching. For instance have you ever heard of a twip, or a thou or a barleycorn? Those are the 3 units that are smaller than inches, but I have literally never ever heard anyone use them. Mostly for anything smaller than an inch people just use partial inches like .000001 inch for example. I actually think it is self evident that both systems are very useful but for different things, the imperial system is more useful as a relative measurement system, not a standard. Metric makes far more sense as a standard. So here I will show you how to measure things relatively using the imperial system when you need to. 
(By the way it's simple to convert your relative measurements into metric system measurements in order to make it work with others measurements. Just measure your inch or your foot to find out how many centimeters they are. Without further ado here is how to use the imperial system as it was intended:

Length:
inch = Width of thumb at the base of nail. (Also used to be 3 barleycorns or 1/12 of a foot, but those require more work to reference than your thumb width. Try them out and see how fast it is compared to using your thumb width)
foot = length of your foot
hand = length of your hand (useful for measuring vertical things like the height of a horse etc...)
yard = length of your belt or girdle
fathom = distance between tips of fingers when arms are outstretched to your sides in T-pose (sailors had to use this to measure rope a lot)
furlong = distance a team of oxen can plow before resting. This is Kinda silly, don't use this one unless you own oxen for some reason :)
league = the distance you can walk in an hour
mile = 1000 paces
pace = distance walked for every other step in other words, 2 steps.

These are very useful measurements since they are all relative. You might ask how relative measuring can be useful? Well, quite simply, you don't need any tools to measure something with a relative system, since it's all based on your own physical characteristics. But beyond that, it has another use. If you ever want to measure long distances, normally people have to buy a expensive tool called a rolly stick (jk I'm just calling it that for fun), but basically it rolls and measures for you, but without that device, measuring can be quite difficult, But if you simply walk from one place to another and count the steps, you can define the distance that way, for instance (2500 paces is 2.5 miles) If you want to convert this to kilometers just measure your average step in m/cm and you'll be very close most likely, as long as you weren't drunk while you were walking.
There is a simple useful method of measuring length in ancient history. A rod with cord carrying knots at certain intervals, waxed and resined against wet weather. This method was used Ancient egypt when building pyramids as well as in europe for land surveying.

Weight: 
ounce = weight of 1x1x.1 inch clay chip
pound = weight of 16 clay chips or weight of 2x2x2 inch cube of clay

How to measure weight: Use a scale (old fashioned) or use a seesaw for larger items or a pulley for really large items

Volume:
teaspoon = the volume taken by dry clay equal in weight to 1/2 ounce
tablespoon = the volume taken by dry clay equal in weight to 2 ounces
fluid ounce = the amount of liquid equal in weight to one ounce (depends on the liquid)
pint = 1/8 of gallon
quart = 1/4 of gallon
gallon = The volume taken by water equal in weight to 10 pounds

How to measure volume: Have markings inside a cup or container

#8: On the topic of land surveying, for inspiration on measuring objects from afar, read this page: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haidao_Suanjing

#9: Options for obtaining uniform clay: (sifter vs a puki vs a basket vs a slab vs levigation)
 - A sifter is very useful, and can be made without a puki. However, it is more useful if it can replace a puki, but in order for it to do that, you must have a good enough shape so it can be used as a puki, which is hard to do without already having a puki. It is possible, but it would probably end up too large and tall to be a puki, because using the coil method is difficult when you try to do this, unless you have some sort of skill in doing it. What you'll likely end up with is a tall bowl instead of a wide one, which is requirement for puki. I will test this more though.
 - A basket performs the same function as a sifter, but is not as useful for draining water out of stuff, but it is easier to make, since having a mistake won't ruin the whole thing like when making pottery.
 - A puki will aid you in making a good round shape of your sifter as well as for any other pots. The downside is it will take more time before you get your sifter.
 - A slab is a thick slab around 4 inches thick and as wide and long as you need, (usually 2 feet by 2 feet at minimum) in order to smash clay and remove impurities by hand. This clay can be used right away, or you can refine it more using sifter methods. If you need grog, a good option is to use terracotta (already cooked clay) which you can smash on this slab as well, or you can use sand that you obtained through a dual-stage sifter. (meaning sift once to obtain sand/clay, then sift again with different sifter to remove the clay from sand.)
   - Best way to make a slab: Simply stomp high clay content soil and dirt into mud, make mud and layer it 4 inches thick, and smooth the top after  it starts to harden, then find a round wooden stick, and make a handle on one end, the round heavy part is used to smash the dirt clods into pieces and obtain clay and remove the impurities like debris and rocks/pebbles.

#10: It would be very useful for preserving fabric if we could use water soluble glue on cushions to hold the fabric in place as well as thread. I need to come up with a good wrapping technique that doesn't cut up the fabric in odd ways. So far, I'm doing a pretty bad job of this, I think the best way to reuse fabric would be to fold wrap it over a object and sew the folds, then sew it to any extra pieces that need to be sewed. 

#11: The moon cycles can help you to plan when to do things at night or in the evenings. Every time the sun sets the moon comes up 1 hour later. If it's a new moon, then it will have no light at night, but some nights it will have 2 hours of complete darkness once the sun sets, other times it will be bright most of the night because of the full moon etc...

#12: In order to make a perfect circle, all you need is string and nails, the nails can be replaced with sharp stones or thorns if that is all you have access to. First decide the width of your circle by placing the nails the distance apart on the string. Then place one nail in the middle of your workpiece, and hammer it in a little so it stays put, next use the other nail and pull it until there is no slack in the string. Then simply etch the surface of your work using the nail going all around the original nail, now you have a perfect circle. (note, the string in the middle needs to have a semi-loose knot around it, it cannot go through the string, since that would cause the string to coil around it ruining the circle etching. Next, once you have a perfect circle, you can use this for checking other things you try to make, for instance, you can build pottery over it using coil technique to ensure you get a perfect circle shape for the top of the pot, you can also use it for wood working to cut perfect circles in wood, you can chop the circle out of the wood and use it as a template that way as well, so you can actually draw a circle around it on stone/wood/clay etc...

#13: I believe it may be possible and probably very useful to make grinder out of clay, or at least something akin to sandpaper. Basically you can determine the grit of the material by choosing what kind of grog to use, make it into a large round disk, then turn a crank on it's axis to spin it and grind metal, stone or wood against it. This can be really useful to save yourself from the pain of grinding stone or wood tools on a static piece of stone. Although if you can find a well shaped limestone rock or sandstone that will work great for this instead. But just in case you cannot find those this works wonders. It also might be possible to make one out of wood, but then you glue various grit sand/clay to it's surface as needed using sap, then melt it off when you need to. I guess that could work for anything including clay, probably easier to make a large clay disc and safer to melt things off of it.

#14: A possible alternative to the clay/wood sifter would be to make a panning bowl or slate, which allows the bigger stuff to flow away on the top, and the smaller stuff to sink to the bottom. No water is used, unless you're trying to sift for sand or rocks or iron. Actually that makes this pretty adaptable, because you would want to use water to get denser material to sink to the bottom and remove everything else, but you would want to use no water if you want items of same density but smaller particle size to sink to the bottom. It would work even better at retrieving clay if you first smashed the clay source as much as possible before using this.

